_gregorylong/2009-05-01-pablo-s-topic-of-the-month-may-2009-edition.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 4788
title: Pablo’s Topic of the Month – May 2009 Edition
date: 2009-05-01T12:16:00+00:00
author: Gregory Long
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/thatotherguy/archive/2009/05/01/pablo-s-topic-of-the-month-may-2009-edition.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "265492416"
categories:
  - Brownfield
  - Programming
  - PTOM
---
<img align="right" width="240" src="/cfs-file.ashx/__key/CommunityServer.Components.PostAttachments/00.00.00.60.06/pablo_topic_of_the_month.png" height="240" />

Have you ever read a blog post about TDD, Dependency Injection, or some other concept and thought, &ldquo;Sounds great . . . if you work in an ivory tower, but I have to work with [insert your code-base here].&rdquo;?&nbsp; Or maybe you really like the idea but you have no clue how to start without beginning the project over?&nbsp; If you answered yes then Pablo is going to make you smile because this month&rsquo;s topic is Refactoring &lsquo;Brownfield&rsquo; Projects.&nbsp; Wikipedia has a fairly complete definition of Brownfield ([http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brownfield\_(software\_development)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brownfield_(software_development "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brownfield_(software_development)")) but for our purposes you can consider any project that must use or take into consideration &lsquo;legacy&rsquo; code a Brownfield project.&nbsp; What is &lsquo;legacy&rsquo; code?&nbsp; Again, for Pablo this means any code that isn&rsquo;t under test &ndash; including that lovely bit of code I just wrote . . . hmmm, I can&rsquo;t wait to see what Pablo has this month.

If you haven&#8217;t already, please consider subscribing to the Los Techies Main Feed so that you can see the various post from all the Los Techies bloggers. 

The main feed is here:&nbsp; [<span style="color: #3366cc">http://feeds.feedburner.com/lostechies</span>](http://feeds.feedburner.com/lostechies)

As the month progresses you can expect posts on:

  * <a target="_self" href="/blogs/gabrielschenker/archive/2009/05/05/ptom-brownfield-development-making-your-dependencies-explicit.aspx">PTOM &#8211; Brownfield Development &#8211; Making your dependencies explicit (Introducing DI and &ldquo;poor man&rsquo;s DI&rdquo; )</a>
  * <a target="_self" href="/blogs/colin_ramsay/archive/2009/05/05/breaking-free-from-httpcontext.aspx">PTOM &#8211; Breaking Free of HttpContext</a>
  * Refactoring to TDD (putting a legacy system under test) 
  * Bringing an Inversion of Control container into the game 
  * Black-box analysis for replacing existing legacy apps 
  * Throwing out a Safety Net &ndash; using smoke tests to gain confidence your changes won&rsquo;t break critical transactions 

We&#8217;ll update this post with the links for these topics as they are posted so stay tuned and Enjoy!

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_gregorylong/2009-05-01-pablo-s-topic-of-the-month-may-2009-edition.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 4788
title: Pablo’s Topic of the Month – May 2009 Edition
date: 2009-05-01T12:16:00+00:00
author: Gregory Long
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/thatotherguy/archive/2009/05/01/pablo-s-topic-of-the-month-may-2009-edition.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "265492416"
categories:
  - Brownfield
  - Programming
  - PTOM
redirect_from: "/blogs/thatotherguy/archive/2009/05/01/pablo-s-topic-of-the-month-may-2009-edition.aspx/"
---
<img align="right" width="240" src="/cfs-file.ashx/__key/CommunityServer.Components.PostAttachments/00.00.00.60.06/pablo_topic_of_the_month.png" height="240" />

Have you ever read a blog post about TDD, Dependency Injection, or some other concept and thought, &ldquo;Sounds great . . . if you work in an ivory tower, but I have to work with [insert your code-base here].&rdquo;?&nbsp; Or maybe you really like the idea but you have no clue how to start without beginning the project over?&nbsp; If you answered yes then Pablo is going to make you smile because this month&rsquo;s topic is Refactoring &lsquo;Brownfield&rsquo; Projects.&nbsp; Wikipedia has a fairly complete definition of Brownfield ([http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brownfield\_(software\_development)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brownfield_(software_development "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brownfield_(software_development)")) but for our purposes you can consider any project that must use or take into consideration &lsquo;legacy&rsquo; code a Brownfield project.&nbsp; What is &lsquo;legacy&rsquo; code?&nbsp; Again, for Pablo this means any code that isn&rsquo;t under test &ndash; including that lovely bit of code I just wrote . . . hmmm, I can&rsquo;t wait to see what Pablo has this month.

If you haven&#8217;t already, please consider subscribing to the Los Techies Main Feed so that you can see the various post from all the Los Techies bloggers. 

The main feed is here:&nbsp; [<span style="color: #3366cc">http://feeds.feedburner.com/lostechies</span>](http://feeds.feedburner.com/lostechies)

As the month progresses you can expect posts on:

  * <a target="_self" href="/blogs/gabrielschenker/archive/2009/05/05/ptom-brownfield-development-making-your-dependencies-explicit.aspx">PTOM &#8211; Brownfield Development &#8211; Making your dependencies explicit (Introducing DI and &ldquo;poor man&rsquo;s DI&rdquo; )</a>
  * <a target="_self" href="/blogs/colin_ramsay/archive/2009/05/05/breaking-free-from-httpcontext.aspx">PTOM &#8211; Breaking Free of HttpContext</a>
  * Refactoring to TDD (putting a legacy system under test) 
  * Bringing an Inversion of Control container into the game 
  * Black-box analysis for replacing existing legacy apps 
  * Throwing out a Safety Net &ndash; using smoke tests to gain confidence your changes won&rsquo;t break critical transactions 

We&#8217;ll update this post with the links for these topics as they are posted so stay tuned and Enjoy!
