_gregorylong/2009-06-19-if-you-re-looking-for-nothin-but-net.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 4789
title: 'If You&#8217;re Looking for Nothin But .Net . . .'
date: 2009-06-19T02:22:04+00:00
author: Gregory Long
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/thatotherguy/archive/2009/06/18/if-you-re-looking-for-nothin-but-net.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "265816400"
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
I attended JP&#8217;s Nothin But .Net course (<http://www.jpboodhoo.com/training.oo>) last week and I wanted to share my perspective with anyone who might be considering the course.&nbsp; I really enjoyed the experience and I&#8217;d happily recommend the course . . . to the right people.&nbsp; Rather than do the usual &#8220;I recommend this course because blah, blah, blah&#8221; I&#8217;d like to tell you why you shouldn&#8217;t or wouldn&#8217;t want to attend.&nbsp; If you make to the end of this post and still want to attend, I highly recommend you do as soon as possible.

If you already have an incredibly strong understanding of the .Net Framework, TDD, BDD, DDD, or if you have a style/way of programming that is perfectly effective and satisfying for you then don&#8217;t attend.&nbsp; If fact, if you&#8217;re any good at teaching, you might wish to start your own course.

If you are very comfortable with your life and your method of programming and you don&#8217;t wish to be challenged then this would be a bad course for you.&nbsp; JP will challenge you to improve your coding skills and your life.&nbsp; Not your idea of a good time?&nbsp; Stay home.

If you are very weak in .Net, especially if you are new to it, wait.&nbsp; Learn more about the framework, delegates, generics, and unit testing before you consider this course.

If the idea of spending 80+ hours in five days focused on .Net development skills fills you with dread, don&#8217;t go.&nbsp; Monday night &#8211; 10:30pm, Tuesday &#8211; 11:30pm, Wednesday &#8211; 12:30pm, Thursday night (well really Friday morning) 4:30am, Friday night &#8211; 2:30am&nbsp; All this and a 7:00am return flight on Saturday morning will get you a splitting headache.

If the course still sounds interesting I have some news for you &#8211; it rocks . . . but I was fortunate.&nbsp; How?&nbsp; Glad you asked.&nbsp; (you did ask didn&#8217;t you?)&nbsp; JP brings an incredible amount of passion for what he does and when I say passion I mean Love.&nbsp; JP obviously loves coding.&nbsp; He loves teaching.&nbsp; He loves his wife and children.&nbsp; I&#8217;d say he clearly loves his life.&nbsp; His love for what he&#8217;s doing creates a safe environment for the students push themselves to the limit, to be challenged by the task and each other.&nbsp;&nbsp; JP calls it &#8216;attacking the code without mercy&#8217; and it&#8217;s only possible if everyone in the room buys into that atmosphere of trust.&nbsp; It&#8217;s like in Peter Pan &#8211; JP&#8217;s attitude is the pixie dust &#8211; all you have to do is have your happy thoughts and we all can fly.&nbsp; The group of guys in the Denver class did just that.&nbsp; We all gave into the spirit JP tried to create and it made everything just work.&nbsp; If even one of the students had decided to attack the others it wouldn&#8217;t have been so special.&nbsp; I&#8217;m grateful to my fellow classmates for what they brought to our class &#8211; it was an awesome experience.&nbsp; I can&#8217;t guarantee your classmates will be as cool as those in my class.

Now we get to the worst part of all &#8211; after a long week of being taught, encouraged, and cajoled to be the best programmer and person you can be &#8211; it all ends.&nbsp; You have to go back to the real world and the real life you left.&nbsp; The &#8216;lost boys&#8217; have to leave Neverland and grow up.&nbsp; After 80+ hours you may have goals loftier than when you began and a list of things to learn next that would make most college students scream.&nbsp; Unlike most classes, JP&#8217;s course isn&#8217;t a destination.&nbsp; It isn&#8217;t the culmination of journey or a goal &#8211; it is the beginning of one.&nbsp; And it is the days, weeks, months, and years that follow that will determine how valuable that beginning was &#8211; if Nothin But .Net was the beginning of your own &#8216;I love my life&#8217; story.&nbsp; This is my challenge now &#8211; to walk that path towards that programmer, that person I want to be and find my own way.&nbsp; Thank you JP.

As with all opinions and recommendations this one is based on my experience and things could change.&nbsp; If you take JP&#8217;s course and don&#8217;t find the same love for coding and teaching coming from JP that I saw please let me know.&nbsp; Somehow, I doubt that will happen.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_gregorylong/2009-06-19-if-you-re-looking-for-nothin-but-net.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 4789
title: 'If You&#8217;re Looking for Nothin But .Net . . .'
date: 2009-06-19T02:22:04+00:00
author: Gregory Long
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/thatotherguy/archive/2009/06/18/if-you-re-looking-for-nothin-but-net.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "265816400"
categories:
  - Uncategorized
redirect_from: "/blogs/thatotherguy/archive/2009/06/18/if-you-re-looking-for-nothin-but-net.aspx/"
---
I attended JP&#8217;s Nothin But .Net course (<http://www.jpboodhoo.com/training.oo>) last week and I wanted to share my perspective with anyone who might be considering the course.&nbsp; I really enjoyed the experience and I&#8217;d happily recommend the course . . . to the right people.&nbsp; Rather than do the usual &#8220;I recommend this course because blah, blah, blah&#8221; I&#8217;d like to tell you why you shouldn&#8217;t or wouldn&#8217;t want to attend.&nbsp; If you make to the end of this post and still want to attend, I highly recommend you do as soon as possible.

If you already have an incredibly strong understanding of the .Net Framework, TDD, BDD, DDD, or if you have a style/way of programming that is perfectly effective and satisfying for you then don&#8217;t attend.&nbsp; If fact, if you&#8217;re any good at teaching, you might wish to start your own course.

If you are very comfortable with your life and your method of programming and you don&#8217;t wish to be challenged then this would be a bad course for you.&nbsp; JP will challenge you to improve your coding skills and your life.&nbsp; Not your idea of a good time?&nbsp; Stay home.

If you are very weak in .Net, especially if you are new to it, wait.&nbsp; Learn more about the framework, delegates, generics, and unit testing before you consider this course.

If the idea of spending 80+ hours in five days focused on .Net development skills fills you with dread, don&#8217;t go.&nbsp; Monday night &#8211; 10:30pm, Tuesday &#8211; 11:30pm, Wednesday &#8211; 12:30pm, Thursday night (well really Friday morning) 4:30am, Friday night &#8211; 2:30am&nbsp; All this and a 7:00am return flight on Saturday morning will get you a splitting headache.

If the course still sounds interesting I have some news for you &#8211; it rocks . . . but I was fortunate.&nbsp; How?&nbsp; Glad you asked.&nbsp; (you did ask didn&#8217;t you?)&nbsp; JP brings an incredible amount of passion for what he does and when I say passion I mean Love.&nbsp; JP obviously loves coding.&nbsp; He loves teaching.&nbsp; He loves his wife and children.&nbsp; I&#8217;d say he clearly loves his life.&nbsp; His love for what he&#8217;s doing creates a safe environment for the students push themselves to the limit, to be challenged by the task and each other.&nbsp;&nbsp; JP calls it &#8216;attacking the code without mercy&#8217; and it&#8217;s only possible if everyone in the room buys into that atmosphere of trust.&nbsp; It&#8217;s like in Peter Pan &#8211; JP&#8217;s attitude is the pixie dust &#8211; all you have to do is have your happy thoughts and we all can fly.&nbsp; The group of guys in the Denver class did just that.&nbsp; We all gave into the spirit JP tried to create and it made everything just work.&nbsp; If even one of the students had decided to attack the others it wouldn&#8217;t have been so special.&nbsp; I&#8217;m grateful to my fellow classmates for what they brought to our class &#8211; it was an awesome experience.&nbsp; I can&#8217;t guarantee your classmates will be as cool as those in my class.

Now we get to the worst part of all &#8211; after a long week of being taught, encouraged, and cajoled to be the best programmer and person you can be &#8211; it all ends.&nbsp; You have to go back to the real world and the real life you left.&nbsp; The &#8216;lost boys&#8217; have to leave Neverland and grow up.&nbsp; After 80+ hours you may have goals loftier than when you began and a list of things to learn next that would make most college students scream.&nbsp; Unlike most classes, JP&#8217;s course isn&#8217;t a destination.&nbsp; It isn&#8217;t the culmination of journey or a goal &#8211; it is the beginning of one.&nbsp; And it is the days, weeks, months, and years that follow that will determine how valuable that beginning was &#8211; if Nothin But .Net was the beginning of your own &#8216;I love my life&#8217; story.&nbsp; This is my challenge now &#8211; to walk that path towards that programmer, that person I want to be and find my own way.&nbsp; Thank you JP.

As with all opinions and recommendations this one is based on my experience and things could change.&nbsp; If you take JP&#8217;s course and don&#8217;t find the same love for coding and teaching coming from JP that I saw please let me know.&nbsp; Somehow, I doubt that will happen.
