---
wordpress_id: 4795
title: To Thine Own Self Be True
date: 2011-02-04T22:16:00+00:00
author: Gregory Long
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/thatotherguy/archive/2011/02/04/to-thine-own-self-be-true.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "265105054"
categories:
  - Community
  - hiring
  - Rant
---
This post is both a rant and a bit of encouragement to any aspiring developers &#8211; this will not have code.

Gabriel posted a <a target="_self" href="/blogs/gabrielschenker/archive/2011/01/18/ranting-about-the-quality-of-developers.aspx">rant</a> earlier which sparked quite a few comments including a number from a fairly frustrated individual. &nbsp;Ray posted a f<a target="_self" href="/blogs/rhouston/archive/2011/02/04/thoughts-on-hiring-developers.aspx">ollow up </a>to the rant and I feel compelled to comment as well. &nbsp;I&#8217;ve had frustrations as both a job seeker and as a hiring manager so I have seen both sides of this particular coin. &nbsp;I know the familiar themes, &#8220;Not enough quality in the marketplace&#8221;, &#8220;Employers won&#8217;t pay for quality&#8221;, &#8220;Employers won&#8217;t train inexperienced people&#8221;, &#8220;Employees use jobs as a training exercise to find a better paying job&#8221;, etc.

I won&#8217;t offer rebuttals or thoughts on any of these because, frankly, I can&#8217;t. &nbsp;I can&#8217;t tell you if they are true or false and if they are true I can&#8217;t change it. &nbsp;I will offer some perspective. &nbsp;

I was a brand new manager in charge of a small (18) software development team when I came across Carla. &nbsp;She was young and inexperienced. &nbsp;She had an MIS degree and some minor work experience &#8211; not enough to make me believe she could work on my staff. &nbsp;What Carla had in abundance was energy and intelligence. &nbsp;As we spoke I began to believe in her and so I made her an offer. &nbsp;I would pay her a very low salary for 6 months. &nbsp;During that time she would have to maintain a normal workload and pass the MS developer certifications [I didn&#8217;t necessarily believe those indicated anything more than some knowledge of the language but . . .]. &nbsp;If she pulled it off I promised a regular position and a raise. &nbsp;The last time I was in touch with Carla she was the manager of a development team at that company (my old job). &nbsp;It wouldn&#8217;t surprise me to find out she was a Director by now (or even a VP). &nbsp;

To this day the single accomplishment I&#8217;m most proud of in my managerial career [such as it&#8217;s been] was giving her a chance. &nbsp;In many ways it was a small thing, but it was one of the best professional choices I&#8217;ve made. &nbsp;The reality is Carla did it all for herself. &nbsp;I have no doubt she would be just a successful today if I had turned her away. &nbsp;I could tell you stories about several other people from my time in that company &#8211; from the CTO who began in Customer Support (answering phones) to several folks on my teams who became very successful &#8211; and they would all sound the same. &nbsp;These people succeeded because they invested in themselves and became valuable to the company and in the marketplace. &nbsp;They did this largely on their own, without a company giving them money, time, or training.

I could also tell you other stories. &nbsp;About the man I had to fire after 6 weeks because he spent his time in the office looking for another job because he _deserved_ better. &nbsp;Or the man who felt I should give him a raise even though he hadn&#8217;t learned any new skills (even with the training I offered) or taken on any additional responsibilities. &nbsp;These stories would also begin to sound the same and if you listened carefully you would hear the same complaint, &#8220;it isn&#8217;t fair&#8221;. &nbsp;Maybe that was true &#8211; I&#8217;m not wise enough to know &#8211; but in the end, the difference between the stories of success and those of failure wasn&#8217;t about fairness &#8211; it was about focus. &nbsp;That is what I looked for in employees back then and what I look for in peers today[I&#8217;m no longer a manager &#8211; just an average programmer]. &nbsp;I would rather hire a totally inexperienced person who has the energy and attitude to succeed than a twenty year veteran programmer who was convinced they deserved something. &nbsp;I can&#8217;t teach someone how to work hard for something they desire. &nbsp;I can&#8217;t teach attitude. &nbsp;I can teach programming and if someone has the right attitude the rest will take care of itself.

As for the other side &#8211; the one where I was on the outside looking in &#8211; that story is a bit like Carla&#8217;s. &nbsp;I studied English Literature in college (U of O &#8211; Go Ducks!) and I left before I graduated so I don&#8217;t have a degree. &nbsp;While in school I applied for a job at the University&#8217;s Network Services department as a student engineer. &nbsp;I was in the wrong degree program and had no formal programming experience so naturally, I didn&#8217;t get the position. &nbsp;As I was leaving &#8211; after being told &#8220;thanks but no thanks&#8221; &#8211; I came across a friend of my father&#8217;s. &nbsp;He worked in the department and, upon hearing my story, convinced the director to hire me. &nbsp;It was my chance and I took it in both hands. &nbsp;I was the weakest link in a department full of geniuses but I learned as much as I could and drank from the fire-hose. &nbsp;That job led to my first full time position (and my departure from the university without a degree) working for a school district that had just purchased a few UNIX servers, a bunch of Cisco routers, and a few hundred Apples with no-one to take care of them. &nbsp;I made $30,000 my first year and spent 80+ hour a week learning everything I could while keeping the lights on for the district&#8217;s network of computers. &nbsp;I became adept at shell scripting and C programming &#8211; and putting up with teachers but that&#8217;s another story. &nbsp;

I&#8217;ve had several jobs since that first one and several jobs that got away. &nbsp;Many companies didn&#8217;t even give me a chance because I didn&#8217;t have a degree. &nbsp;Several wouldn&#8217;t let me even interview. &nbsp;Once I had some experience in programming (C, Perl, JAVA, VB), many companies would offer me lower salaries because I didn&#8217;t have a &#8216;typical&#8217; programming background. &nbsp;I&#8217;ve interviewed with one company in Austin twice and been rejected both times. &nbsp;Was any of this fair? &nbsp;Again, I don&#8217;t know. &nbsp;Was it fair I got that job in school because someone knew my father? &nbsp;Was it fair that companies rejected me without even giving me a chance to code with them &#8211; to see what I could do?

But a better question &#8211; and one I&#8217;ll answer &#8211; is, &#8220;does it matter?&#8221; &nbsp;No, it doesn&#8217;t. &nbsp;I won&#8217;t tell you I was fine with the rejection. &nbsp;I wasn&#8217;t. &nbsp;It hurt and the next time I&#8217;m rejected it will hurt again. &nbsp;But it never changed what I was going to do or how I was going to do it. &nbsp;I&#8217;ve been programming professionally for over 16 years and I don&#8217;t believe I&#8217;ll ever stop. &nbsp;I&#8217;ve been learning how to be a better programmer for over 16 years and I hope I&#8217;ll never stop. &nbsp;Every year I find new challenges and ways to grow my skills &#8211; most of them outside of work. &nbsp;I&#8217;ve volunteered at code-camps, attended book clubs, dojos, developer chats, lunch-and-learns all to be a better programmer tomorrow than I am today. &nbsp;I don&#8217;t do this to get a better job and I don&#8217;t believe I deserve anything for all of my work. &nbsp;I&#8217;ve done it for me and that is enough. &nbsp;Coincidentally, I&#8217;ve managed to get hired a few times [I&#8217;ve never been out of work] and I&#8217;ve made a comfortable living doing something I love. &nbsp;I don&#8217;t know if it&#8217;s fair or not. &nbsp;I certainly don&#8217;t feel I deserve it, but I do feel grateful. &nbsp;

So, if you want to have a career in programming I suggest you spend less time worrying about the fairness of the market or getting what you deserve and more time learning your craft. &nbsp;Even better, learn what you really want and go after it no matter what. &nbsp;You will always face people, some of them good people, who will fail to see the best in you. &nbsp;If you see it yourself and pursue it with all your will then things will work out o.k..

And for anyone hiring out there I suggest you take a good look at the person behind the resume when making your choice. &nbsp;Passion, drive, and determination will pay you tenfold if given an opportunity. &nbsp;You will be hard-pressed to find a quality developer if you can&#8217;t find a quality person.