_sharoncichelli/2011-03-10-microcontroller-projects-and-source-code.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 3868
title: Microcontroller Projects and Source Code
date: 2011-03-10T03:04:00+00:00
author: Sharon Cichelli
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/sharoncichelli/archive/2011/03/09/microcontroller-projects-and-source-code.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "263371932"
categories:
  - Arduino
  - electronics
---
Welcome, [Ignite/Dorkbot Science Fair](http://dorkbot.org/dorkbotaustin/2011/03/dorkbot-28-sxsw-2011-science-fair-pesenters/) Party Goers. Here are details on the two projects I had with me at the Science Fair.

I used the open-source [Arduino microcontroller](http://arduino.cc/). Arduino programs are called &#8220;sketches.&#8221; I keep my Arduino sketches on the collaborative source-code repository [GitHub](https://github.com/), in my [Arduino-Sketches repository](https://github.com/scichelli/Arduino-Sketches). You can browse the code in a web browser without installing Git, so go check it out. And then learn Git and post your own sketches.

[<img src="http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3516/3924009165_7e1bb7167f_m.jpg" width="240" height="180" alt="Ambient Clock" />](http://www.flickr.com/photos/spyderella/3924009165/)
  
The Ambient Clock is an information radiator for the passage of time. It was written up on the [Makezine blog](http://blog.makezine.com/archive/2009/10/ambient-led-flowerpot-clock.html). ([pictures](http://www.flickr.com/photos/spyderella/sets/72157622382205116/) | [program](https://github.com/scichelli/Arduino-Sketches/tree/master/AmbientClock))

&nbsp;

[<img src="http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2737/4085499113_a04fefc4d7_m.jpg" width="240" height="180" alt="Blinky Eyeball Halloween Costume" />](http://www.flickr.com/photos/spyderella/4085499113/)
  
The Blinky Eyeball Halloween Nightmare is, um, pretty self-describing. ([write-up](http://www.girlwritescode.com/2009/11/happy-hack-o-ween-electronics-and.html) | [pictures](http://www.flickr.com/photos/spyderella/sets/72157622735987434/) | [program](https://github.com/scichelli/Arduino-Sketches/tree/master/HalloweenEyeballs))

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_sharoncichelli/2011-03-10-microcontroller-projects-and-source-code.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 3868
title: Microcontroller Projects and Source Code
date: 2011-03-10T03:04:00+00:00
author: Sharon Cichelli
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/sharoncichelli/archive/2011/03/09/microcontroller-projects-and-source-code.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "263371932"
categories:
  - Arduino
  - electronics
redirect_from: "/blogs/sharoncichelli/archive/2011/03/09/microcontroller-projects-and-source-code.aspx/"
---
Welcome, [Ignite/Dorkbot Science Fair](http://dorkbot.org/dorkbotaustin/2011/03/dorkbot-28-sxsw-2011-science-fair-pesenters/) Party Goers. Here are details on the two projects I had with me at the Science Fair.

I used the open-source [Arduino microcontroller](http://arduino.cc/). Arduino programs are called &#8220;sketches.&#8221; I keep my Arduino sketches on the collaborative source-code repository [GitHub](https://github.com/), in my [Arduino-Sketches repository](https://github.com/scichelli/Arduino-Sketches). You can browse the code in a web browser without installing Git, so go check it out. And then learn Git and post your own sketches.

[<img src="http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3516/3924009165_7e1bb7167f_m.jpg" width="240" height="180" alt="Ambient Clock" />](http://www.flickr.com/photos/spyderella/3924009165/)
  
The Ambient Clock is an information radiator for the passage of time. It was written up on the [Makezine blog](http://blog.makezine.com/archive/2009/10/ambient-led-flowerpot-clock.html). ([pictures](http://www.flickr.com/photos/spyderella/sets/72157622382205116/) | [program](https://github.com/scichelli/Arduino-Sketches/tree/master/AmbientClock))

&nbsp;

[<img src="http://farm3.static.flickr.com/2737/4085499113_a04fefc4d7_m.jpg" width="240" height="180" alt="Blinky Eyeball Halloween Costume" />](http://www.flickr.com/photos/spyderella/4085499113/)
  
The Blinky Eyeball Halloween Nightmare is, um, pretty self-describing. ([write-up](http://www.girlwritescode.com/2009/11/happy-hack-o-ween-electronics-and.html) | [pictures](http://www.flickr.com/photos/spyderella/sets/72157622735987434/) | [program](https://github.com/scichelli/Arduino-Sketches/tree/master/HalloweenEyeballs))
