_johnteague/2010-01-06-and-now-a-word-from-our-sponsors.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 42
title: And Now a Word From Our Sponsors
date: 2010-01-06T23:33:43+00:00
author: John Teague
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/johnteague/archive/2010/01/06/and-now-a-word-from-our-sponsors.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "463024145"
categories:
  - fiesta open-spaces
---
I wanted to take a moment and thank the sponsors of&#160; [Pablo’s fiesta open space conference](http://fiesta.lostechies.com).&#160; People and Organizations who sponsor conferences do so because they value their community and use base.&#160; This is especially so for open space conferences since there are very few “formal” presentations with PowerPoint slides and product demos.&#160; We have been very lucky to have a lot support from the Friends of Pablo other companies to keep the cost low enough so the ticket price is not a barrier to attend.

### [St. Edward’s Professional Education Center](http://www.pec.stedwards.edu/)

St. Ed’s PEC has been a great partner for several events in the Austin area.&#160; They have graciously have donated the space for the conference.&#160; Without this donation the ticket cost would be dramatically higher.

### [Microsoft](http://bing.com)

Say what you want for MS, but they have been a great sponsor of community events.&#160; They have helped us with the Austin Code Camp’s and Pablo’s Day of TDD.&#160; It’s nice to have a reliable partner for doing events that are targets community education. Our developer evangelist, [Phil Wheat](http://blogs.msdn.com/PhilWheat) had been very supportive our efforts.

### Other Sponsors

  * [McLane Advanced Technologies](http://mclaneat.com) will be providing drinks and snacks for everyone 
  * [Pragmatic Bookshelf](http://pragprog.com) will be providing some books 
  * [The Lounge](http://theloungenet.com) provided advertising 
  * [Infragistics](http://infragistics.com) 
  * Avenida Software (Me) 
  * Independent Software Fabrication ([Gregory Long](http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/thatotherguy/default.aspx) [Linkedin](http://www.linkedin.com/in/gregoryplong)) 

The Conference is coming together really well.&#160; 75 people have registered.&#160; We are limiting space to 150, so if you are waiting to the last moment, you might want to speed that up.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_johnteague/2010-01-06-and-now-a-word-from-our-sponsors.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 42
title: And Now a Word From Our Sponsors
date: 2010-01-06T23:33:43+00:00
author: John Teague
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/johnteague/archive/2010/01/06/and-now-a-word-from-our-sponsors.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "463024145"
categories:
  - fiesta open-spaces
redirect_from: "/blogs/johnteague/archive/2010/01/06/and-now-a-word-from-our-sponsors.aspx/"
---
I wanted to take a moment and thank the sponsors of&#160; [Pablo’s fiesta open space conference](http://fiesta.lostechies.com).&#160; People and Organizations who sponsor conferences do so because they value their community and use base.&#160; This is especially so for open space conferences since there are very few “formal” presentations with PowerPoint slides and product demos.&#160; We have been very lucky to have a lot support from the Friends of Pablo other companies to keep the cost low enough so the ticket price is not a barrier to attend.

### [St. Edward’s Professional Education Center](http://www.pec.stedwards.edu/)

St. Ed’s PEC has been a great partner for several events in the Austin area.&#160; They have graciously have donated the space for the conference.&#160; Without this donation the ticket cost would be dramatically higher.

### [Microsoft](http://bing.com)

Say what you want for MS, but they have been a great sponsor of community events.&#160; They have helped us with the Austin Code Camp’s and Pablo’s Day of TDD.&#160; It’s nice to have a reliable partner for doing events that are targets community education. Our developer evangelist, [Phil Wheat](http://blogs.msdn.com/PhilWheat) had been very supportive our efforts.

### Other Sponsors

  * [McLane Advanced Technologies](http://mclaneat.com) will be providing drinks and snacks for everyone 
  * [Pragmatic Bookshelf](http://pragprog.com) will be providing some books 
  * [The Lounge](http://theloungenet.com) provided advertising 
  * [Infragistics](http://infragistics.com) 
  * Avenida Software (Me) 
  * Independent Software Fabrication ([Gregory Long](http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/thatotherguy/default.aspx) [Linkedin](http://www.linkedin.com/in/gregoryplong)) 

The Conference is coming together really well.&#160; 75 people have registered.&#160; We are limiting space to 150, so if you are waiting to the last moment, you might want to speed that up.
