_derickbailey/2008-12-04-professionalism-and-thermodynamics.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 21
title: Professionalism And Thermodynamics
date: 2008-12-04T13:53:57+00:00
author: Derick Bailey
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/derickbailey/archive/2008/12/04/professionalism-and-thermodynamics.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262067961"
categories:
  - Community
  - Management
  - Philosophy of Software
---
For the last month or so, I&#8217;ve been having a serious problem with the apparent lack of professionalism in the software development industry as a whole. There are many factors contributing to this and many different aspects of the problem. I&#8217;m not going to go into any detail on the issues I&#8217;m seeing, at this point, though. It will be sufficient, for the moment, to simply state that there is a serious lack of professionalism in our industry.

I&#8217;ve been discussing this issue with my dad, recently, and this morning he sent me an email that I thought was worth sharing with the world.

> Today’s thought is to remind the team that life in general is determined by the 2<sup>nd</sup> Law of Thermal Dynamics. All matter (systems) go from a state of order to disorder with out any outside input.

> [From <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_law_of_thermodynamics" target="_blank">Wikipedia</a>]:
> 
> _&#8220;The **second law of [thermodynamics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermodynamics)** is an expression of the universal law of increasing_ [_entropy_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entropy)_, stating that the entropy of an_ [_isolated system_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isolated_system) _which is not in_ [_equilibrium_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermodynamic_equilibrium) _will tend to increase over time, approaching a maximum value at equilibrium._
> 
> _The second law traces its origin to French physicist_ [_Sadi Carnot_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nicolas_L%C3%A9onard_Sadi_Carnot)_&#8216;s 1824 paper_ [_Reflections on the Motive Power of Fire_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reflections_on_the_Motive_Power_of_Fire)_, which presented the view that_ [_motive power_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motive_power) _(_[_work_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mechanical_work)_) is due to the fall of_ [_caloric_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caloric) _(_[_heat_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heat)_) from a hot to cold body (_[_working substance_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Working_substance)_). In simple terms, the second law is an expression of the fact that over time, ignoring the effects of self-gravity, differences in temperature, pressure, and density tend to even out in a physical system that is isolated from the outside world. Entropy is a measure of how far along this evening-out process has progressed._
> 
> _There are many versions of the second law, but they all have the same effect, which is to explain the phenomenon of_ [_irreversibility_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irreversibility) _in nature.&#8221;_

> &nbsp;
> 
> Bottom line is that the **<u>point of natural human equilibrium</u>** is far below the level of professionalism demanded by our responsibilities to work, self, family and others.
> 
> The **<u>Point</u>** … doing what’s natural or going with the flow points life in the downward direction every time.&nbsp; Let’s tweak the line upward… put some thought and energy into it.
> 
> Robert D. Bailey&nbsp;&nbsp; 12-04-2008&nbsp;&nbsp;

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_derickbailey/2008-12-04-professionalism-and-thermodynamics.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 21
title: Professionalism And Thermodynamics
date: 2008-12-04T13:53:57+00:00
author: Derick Bailey
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/derickbailey/archive/2008/12/04/professionalism-and-thermodynamics.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262067961"
categories:
  - Community
  - Management
  - Philosophy of Software
redirect_from: "/blogs/derickbailey/archive/2008/12/04/professionalism-and-thermodynamics.aspx/"
---
For the last month or so, I&#8217;ve been having a serious problem with the apparent lack of professionalism in the software development industry as a whole. There are many factors contributing to this and many different aspects of the problem. I&#8217;m not going to go into any detail on the issues I&#8217;m seeing, at this point, though. It will be sufficient, for the moment, to simply state that there is a serious lack of professionalism in our industry.

I&#8217;ve been discussing this issue with my dad, recently, and this morning he sent me an email that I thought was worth sharing with the world.

> Today’s thought is to remind the team that life in general is determined by the 2<sup>nd</sup> Law of Thermal Dynamics. All matter (systems) go from a state of order to disorder with out any outside input.

> [From <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Second_law_of_thermodynamics" target="_blank">Wikipedia</a>]:
> 
> _&#8220;The **second law of [thermodynamics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermodynamics)** is an expression of the universal law of increasing_ [_entropy_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entropy)_, stating that the entropy of an_ [_isolated system_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isolated_system) _which is not in_ [_equilibrium_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermodynamic_equilibrium) _will tend to increase over time, approaching a maximum value at equilibrium._
> 
> _The second law traces its origin to French physicist_ [_Sadi Carnot_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nicolas_L%C3%A9onard_Sadi_Carnot)_&#8216;s 1824 paper_ [_Reflections on the Motive Power of Fire_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reflections_on_the_Motive_Power_of_Fire)_, which presented the view that_ [_motive power_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Motive_power) _(_[_work_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mechanical_work)_) is due to the fall of_ [_caloric_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caloric) _(_[_heat_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heat)_) from a hot to cold body (_[_working substance_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Working_substance)_). In simple terms, the second law is an expression of the fact that over time, ignoring the effects of self-gravity, differences in temperature, pressure, and density tend to even out in a physical system that is isolated from the outside world. Entropy is a measure of how far along this evening-out process has progressed._
> 
> _There are many versions of the second law, but they all have the same effect, which is to explain the phenomenon of_ [_irreversibility_](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irreversibility) _in nature.&#8221;_

> &nbsp;
> 
> Bottom line is that the **<u>point of natural human equilibrium</u>** is far below the level of professionalism demanded by our responsibilities to work, self, family and others.
> 
> The **<u>Point</u>** … doing what’s natural or going with the flow points life in the downward direction every time.&nbsp; Let’s tweak the line upward… put some thought and energy into it.
> 
> Robert D. Bailey&nbsp;&nbsp; 12-04-2008&nbsp;&nbsp;
