_derickbailey/2008-10-14-thanks-adnug-attendees-slides-and-code-available.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 10
title: Thanks ADNUG attendees! Slides and code available.
date: 2008-10-14T13:55:57+00:00
author: Derick Bailey
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/derickbailey/archive/2008/10/14/thanks-adnug-attendees-slides-and-code-available.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262067885"
categories:
  - .NET
  - Community
  - Principles and Patterns
---
I had a lot of fun giving my SOLID Principles presentation at the <a href="http://adnug.org" target="_blank">Austin .NET User Group</a> last night. It was a pleasure and an honor to be able to give back to the community that has supported me for so many years. 

I&#8217;d like to thank everyone that came out to see the presentation, for being such a great audience. There were a lot of great questions and comments and good discussion. I sincerely hope that I&#8217;ve inspired at least a few people to continue digging into the SOLID principles. 

As promised, <a href="http://www.lostechies.com/files/folders/derickbailey/default.aspx" target="_blank">I&#8217;ve posted my slides and the example code for download</a>.

Additional resources for SOLID:

  * <a href="http://butunclebob.com/ArticleS.UncleBob.PrinciplesOfOod" target="_blank">Uncle Bob (Robert Martin)&#8217;s Principles Of Object Oriented Development</a>
  * <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Principles-Patterns-Practices-Robert-Martin/dp/0131857258/" target="_blank">Agile Principles, Patterns, and Practices in C#</a> by Robert and Micah Martin
  * <a href="http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/chad_myers/archive/2008/03/07/pablo-s-topic-of-the-month-march-solid-principles.aspx" target="_blank">Pablo&#8217;s Topic Of The Month: SOLID</a>

For the questions on legacy code from last night:

  * <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Working-Effectively-Legacy-Robert-Martin/dp/0131177052/" target="_blank">Working Effectively with Legacy Code</a> by Michael Feathers
  * <a href="http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2008/05/27/austin-code-camp-material-posted.aspx" target="_blank">Jimmy Bogard&#8217;s Legacy Code Presentation</a> from Austin Code Camp 2008

If anyone has any questions about the SOLID principles, would like more information, etc, please feel free to contact me via the contact link on my blog(s) or via my email address listed at the end of the slides.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_derickbailey/2008-10-14-thanks-adnug-attendees-slides-and-code-available.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 10
title: Thanks ADNUG attendees! Slides and code available.
date: 2008-10-14T13:55:57+00:00
author: Derick Bailey
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/derickbailey/archive/2008/10/14/thanks-adnug-attendees-slides-and-code-available.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262067885"
categories:
  - .NET
  - Community
  - Principles and Patterns
redirect_from: "/blogs/derickbailey/archive/2008/10/14/thanks-adnug-attendees-slides-and-code-available.aspx/"
---
I had a lot of fun giving my SOLID Principles presentation at the <a href="http://adnug.org" target="_blank">Austin .NET User Group</a> last night. It was a pleasure and an honor to be able to give back to the community that has supported me for so many years. 

I&#8217;d like to thank everyone that came out to see the presentation, for being such a great audience. There were a lot of great questions and comments and good discussion. I sincerely hope that I&#8217;ve inspired at least a few people to continue digging into the SOLID principles. 

As promised, <a href="http://www.lostechies.com/files/folders/derickbailey/default.aspx" target="_blank">I&#8217;ve posted my slides and the example code for download</a>.

Additional resources for SOLID:

  * <a href="http://butunclebob.com/ArticleS.UncleBob.PrinciplesOfOod" target="_blank">Uncle Bob (Robert Martin)&#8217;s Principles Of Object Oriented Development</a>
  * <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Principles-Patterns-Practices-Robert-Martin/dp/0131857258/" target="_blank">Agile Principles, Patterns, and Practices in C#</a> by Robert and Micah Martin
  * <a href="http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/chad_myers/archive/2008/03/07/pablo-s-topic-of-the-month-march-solid-principles.aspx" target="_blank">Pablo&#8217;s Topic Of The Month: SOLID</a>

For the questions on legacy code from last night:

  * <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Working-Effectively-Legacy-Robert-Martin/dp/0131177052/" target="_blank">Working Effectively with Legacy Code</a> by Michael Feathers
  * <a href="http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2008/05/27/austin-code-camp-material-posted.aspx" target="_blank">Jimmy Bogard&#8217;s Legacy Code Presentation</a> from Austin Code Camp 2008

If anyone has any questions about the SOLID principles, would like more information, etc, please feel free to contact me via the contact link on my blog(s) or via my email address listed at the end of the slides.
