_derickbailey/2009-02-15-it-s-2-for-1-day-welcome-louis-and-sean.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 35
title: 'It&#8217;s 2 For 1 day! Welcome Louis And Sean!'
date: 2009-02-15T01:32:00+00:00
author: Derick Bailey
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/derickbailey/archive/2009/02/14/it-s-2-for-1-day-welcome-louis-and-sean.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262068030"
categories:
  - Community
---
This weekend, I was given the honor of inviting both [Louis Salin](/blogs/louissalin/default.aspx) and [Sean Biefeld](/blogs/seanbiefeld/default.aspx) to be a part of the Los Techies crew.

Louis has&nbsp;previously been&nbsp;blogging over at [LoneStarDeveloper.com](http://blog.lonestardeveloper.com/)&nbsp;and is active in the [Twitter](http://twitter.com/louis_salin) universe.&nbsp;He has been one of my favorite bloggers since I met him at the Kaizen Conference in Austin, back in October and I&#8217;m very excited about him joining us. 

Sean is a coworker of mine at McLane Advanced Technologies, and is one of the rising stars in&nbsp;our development department. He has recently jumped into the community with blogging at [SBiefeld.com](http://sbiefeld.com/) and&nbsp;conversations in [Twitter](http://twitter.com/seanbiefeld). 

Join me in welcoming both Louis and Sean to our little corner of the world. And keep an eye on both of them! They are both very talented, with many great things to say!

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_derickbailey/2009-02-15-it-s-2-for-1-day-welcome-louis-and-sean.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 35
title: 'It&#8217;s 2 For 1 day! Welcome Louis And Sean!'
date: 2009-02-15T01:32:00+00:00
author: Derick Bailey
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/derickbailey/archive/2009/02/14/it-s-2-for-1-day-welcome-louis-and-sean.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262068030"
categories:
  - Community
redirect_from: "/blogs/derickbailey/archive/2009/02/14/it-s-2-for-1-day-welcome-louis-and-sean.aspx/"
---
This weekend, I was given the honor of inviting both [Louis Salin](/blogs/louissalin/default.aspx) and [Sean Biefeld](/blogs/seanbiefeld/default.aspx) to be a part of the Los Techies crew.

Louis has&nbsp;previously been&nbsp;blogging over at [LoneStarDeveloper.com](http://blog.lonestardeveloper.com/)&nbsp;and is active in the [Twitter](http://twitter.com/louis_salin) universe.&nbsp;He has been one of my favorite bloggers since I met him at the Kaizen Conference in Austin, back in October and I&#8217;m very excited about him joining us. 

Sean is a coworker of mine at McLane Advanced Technologies, and is one of the rising stars in&nbsp;our development department. He has recently jumped into the community with blogging at [SBiefeld.com](http://sbiefeld.com/) and&nbsp;conversations in [Twitter](http://twitter.com/seanbiefeld). 

Join me in welcoming both Louis and Sean to our little corner of the world. And keep an eye on both of them! They are both very talented, with many great things to say!
