_derickbailey/2009-02-11-solid-development-principles-in-motivational-pictures.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 34
title: SOLID Development Principles – In Motivational Pictures
date: 2009-02-11T17:36:00+00:00
author: Derick Bailey
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/derickbailey/archive/2009/02/11/solid-development-principles-in-motivational-pictures.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262049837"
dsq_needs_sync:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Principles and Patterns
---
I found the <a href="http://bighugelabs.com/flickr/motivator.php" target="_blank">Motivator</a> this morning. It lets you create your own motivational pictures. So, here&rsquo;s my first run at creating the <a href="/blogs/chad_myers/archive/2008/03/07/pablo-s-topic-of-the-month-march-solid-principles.aspx" target="_blank">SOLID software development principles</a> in motivational picture form. I &lsquo;borrowed&rsquo; the images from google image search results. I hope you find them to be as fun as I do! I have them all hanging up in my team room, already. 🙂

(**Update:** I never expected the response to this post to be so great! <span style="text-decoration: line-through">There have been many inquiries about prints, high res versions, etc. As I said in the comments below, the source pictures that are linked via the thumbnails are all I have. There does appear to be some effort to produce high res versions, though. See the comments for more info!</span>)

&nbsp;

**Update:** <span style="text-decoration: line-through">Due to the continuous request for prints, posters, calendars, etc, we (LosTechies) are looking into what it would take to get these turned into high quality prints of various types. I don&rsquo;t have any detail yet, but I am hoping to have some good info on this, fairly soon.</span>

&nbsp;

**Update:** Steve Smith and the NimblePros crew have created their own version of the posters, along with other principles, in a Calendar for 2011. Go get yours, here: <http://nimblepros.com/products/software-craftsmanship-2011-calendar.aspx>

&nbsp;

### SOLID

Software development is not a Jenga game.

[<img style="border-top-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-right-width: 0px" alt="SOLID" src="//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/SOLID_thumb_1C4A9F60.jpg" border="0" height="192" width="235" />](//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/SOLID_6EC97F9C.jpg) 

(This one was created by <a href="http://blog.fohjin.com/" target="_blank">Mark Nijhof</a>&rsquo;s. He posted it via <a href="http://twitter.com/marknijhof" target="_blank">twitter</a> and I&rsquo;m borrowing it for my own collection.)

&nbsp;

### Single Responsibility Principle

Just because you can, doesn&rsquo;t mean you should.

[<img style="border-top-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-right-width: 0px" alt="Single Responsibility Principle 2" src="//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/SingleResponsibilityPrinciple2_thumb_579E051E.jpg" border="0" height="192" width="235" />](//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/SingleResponsibilityPrinciple2_71060858.jpg) 

(**Update:** I knew I had seen this Swiss Army knife in a Single Responsibility post before. Gabriel <a href="/blogs/gabrielschenker/archive/2009/01/21/real-swiss-don-t-need-srp-do-they.aspx" target="_blank">reminded me where</a>.)

&nbsp;

### Open Closed Principle

Open chest surgery is not needed when putting on a coat.

[<img style="border-top-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-right-width: 0px" alt="Open Closed Principle 2" src="//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/OpenClosedPrinciple2_thumb_12F16ADD.jpg" border="0" height="192" width="235" />](//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/OpenClosedPrinciple2_2C596E17.jpg)&nbsp;

### Liskov Substitution Principle

If it looks like a duck, quacks like a duck, but needs batteries &ndash; you probably have the wrong abstraction

[<img style="border-top-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-right-width: 0px" alt="Liskov Subtitution Principle" src="//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/LiskovSubtitutionPrinciple_thumb_4E44D09B.jpg" border="0" height="192" width="235" />](//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/LiskovSubtitutionPrinciple_52BB5162.jpg) 

### Interface Segregation Principle

You want me to plug this in, where?

[<img style="border-top-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-right-width: 0px" alt="Interface Segregation Principle" src="//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/InterfaceSegregationPrinciple_thumb_2DBD90E9.jpg" border="0" height="192" width="235" />](//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/InterfaceSegregationPrinciple_60216468.jpg) 

### Dependency Inversion Principle

Would you solder a lamp directly to the electrical wiring in a wall?

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

[<img style="border-top-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-right-width: 0px" alt="Dependency Inversion Principle" src="//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/DependencyInversionPrinciple_thumb_50152662.jpg" border="0" height="192" width="235" />](//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/DependencyInversionPrinciple_0278F9E2.jpg)

### Creative Commons License

There&rsquo;s been a lot of request to re-use these images, so I&rsquo;m going to release them under a [Creative Commons license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/).

<a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/" rel="license"><img style="border-top-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-right-width: 0px" alt="Creative Commons License" src="http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/3.0/us/88x31.png" /></a>&nbsp;

<span>SOLID Motivational Posters,</span> by <a href="/blogs/derickbailey/archive/2009/02/11/solid-development-principles-in-motivational-pictures.aspx" rel="cc:attributionURL">Derick Bailey</a>, is licensed under a <a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/" rel="license">Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 United States License</a>.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_derickbailey/2009-02-11-solid-development-principles-in-motivational-pictures.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 34
title: SOLID Development Principles – In Motivational Pictures
date: 2009-02-11T17:36:00+00:00
author: Derick Bailey
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/derickbailey/archive/2009/02/11/solid-development-principles-in-motivational-pictures.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262049837"
dsq_needs_sync:
  - "1"
categories:
  - Principles and Patterns
redirect_from: "/blogs/derickbailey/archive/2009/02/11/solid-development-principles-in-motivational-pictures.aspx/"
---
I found the <a href="http://bighugelabs.com/flickr/motivator.php" target="_blank">Motivator</a> this morning. It lets you create your own motivational pictures. So, here&rsquo;s my first run at creating the <a href="/blogs/chad_myers/archive/2008/03/07/pablo-s-topic-of-the-month-march-solid-principles.aspx" target="_blank">SOLID software development principles</a> in motivational picture form. I &lsquo;borrowed&rsquo; the images from google image search results. I hope you find them to be as fun as I do! I have them all hanging up in my team room, already. 🙂

(**Update:** I never expected the response to this post to be so great! <span style="text-decoration: line-through">There have been many inquiries about prints, high res versions, etc. As I said in the comments below, the source pictures that are linked via the thumbnails are all I have. There does appear to be some effort to produce high res versions, though. See the comments for more info!</span>)

&nbsp;

**Update:** <span style="text-decoration: line-through">Due to the continuous request for prints, posters, calendars, etc, we (LosTechies) are looking into what it would take to get these turned into high quality prints of various types. I don&rsquo;t have any detail yet, but I am hoping to have some good info on this, fairly soon.</span>

&nbsp;

**Update:** Steve Smith and the NimblePros crew have created their own version of the posters, along with other principles, in a Calendar for 2011. Go get yours, here: <http://nimblepros.com/products/software-craftsmanship-2011-calendar.aspx>

&nbsp;

### SOLID

Software development is not a Jenga game.

[<img style="border-top-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-right-width: 0px" alt="SOLID" src="//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/SOLID_thumb_1C4A9F60.jpg" border="0" height="192" width="235" />](//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/SOLID_6EC97F9C.jpg) 

(This one was created by <a href="http://blog.fohjin.com/" target="_blank">Mark Nijhof</a>&rsquo;s. He posted it via <a href="http://twitter.com/marknijhof" target="_blank">twitter</a> and I&rsquo;m borrowing it for my own collection.)

&nbsp;

### Single Responsibility Principle

Just because you can, doesn&rsquo;t mean you should.

[<img style="border-top-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-right-width: 0px" alt="Single Responsibility Principle 2" src="//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/SingleResponsibilityPrinciple2_thumb_579E051E.jpg" border="0" height="192" width="235" />](//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/SingleResponsibilityPrinciple2_71060858.jpg) 

(**Update:** I knew I had seen this Swiss Army knife in a Single Responsibility post before. Gabriel <a href="/blogs/gabrielschenker/archive/2009/01/21/real-swiss-don-t-need-srp-do-they.aspx" target="_blank">reminded me where</a>.)

&nbsp;

### Open Closed Principle

Open chest surgery is not needed when putting on a coat.

[<img style="border-top-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-right-width: 0px" alt="Open Closed Principle 2" src="//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/OpenClosedPrinciple2_thumb_12F16ADD.jpg" border="0" height="192" width="235" />](//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/OpenClosedPrinciple2_2C596E17.jpg)&nbsp;

### Liskov Substitution Principle

If it looks like a duck, quacks like a duck, but needs batteries &ndash; you probably have the wrong abstraction

[<img style="border-top-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-right-width: 0px" alt="Liskov Subtitution Principle" src="//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/LiskovSubtitutionPrinciple_thumb_4E44D09B.jpg" border="0" height="192" width="235" />](//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/LiskovSubtitutionPrinciple_52BB5162.jpg) 

### Interface Segregation Principle

You want me to plug this in, where?

[<img style="border-top-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-right-width: 0px" alt="Interface Segregation Principle" src="//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/InterfaceSegregationPrinciple_thumb_2DBD90E9.jpg" border="0" height="192" width="235" />](//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/InterfaceSegregationPrinciple_60216468.jpg) 

### Dependency Inversion Principle

Would you solder a lamp directly to the electrical wiring in a wall?

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

&nbsp;

[<img style="border-top-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-right-width: 0px" alt="Dependency Inversion Principle" src="//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/DependencyInversionPrinciple_thumb_50152662.jpg" border="0" height="192" width="235" />](//lostechies.com/derickbailey/files/2011/03/DependencyInversionPrinciple_0278F9E2.jpg)

### Creative Commons License

There&rsquo;s been a lot of request to re-use these images, so I&rsquo;m going to release them under a [Creative Commons license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/).

<a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/" rel="license"><img style="border-top-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-right-width: 0px" alt="Creative Commons License" src="http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/3.0/us/88x31.png" /></a>&nbsp;

<span>SOLID Motivational Posters,</span> by <a href="/blogs/derickbailey/archive/2009/02/11/solid-development-principles-in-motivational-pictures.aspx" rel="cc:attributionURL">Derick Bailey</a>, is licensed under a <a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/" rel="license">Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 United States License</a>.
