_erichexter/2010-03-15-discountasp-net-is-a-platinum-sponsor-of-austin-code-camp-2010.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 3007
title: DiscountASP.Net is a Platinum Sponsor of Austin Code Camp 2010
date: 2010-03-15T12:25:00+00:00
author: Eric Hexter
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/hex/archive/2010/03/15/discountasp-net-is-a-platinum-sponsor-of-austin-code-camp-2010.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "1107158636"
categories:
  - AustinCodeCamp
  - Community
---
_[<img style="border-right-width: 0px;border-top-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px" border="0" alt="dasplogo_tagline" src="http://lostechies.com/erichexter/files/2011/03/dasplogo_tagline_37E67135.jpg" width="240" height="140" />](http://bit.ly/drsr6H)_ 

_DiscountASP.NET_ delivers the best value in cutting edge, enterprise-class shared ASP.NET Hosting through continuous innovation. We offer One Hosting Plan and Add-ons in the US and UK.

Information at [www.discountasp.net](http://bit.ly/drsr6H)

On behalf of the Austin .Net Users Group (ADNUG) and every attendee of Code Camp 2010, we would like to thank DiscountASP.Net for your contribution to Code Camp 2010. This event is funded by your contribution and would not be possible without your support of the local technology community:

Our Sincerest Thanks, 

Austin Code Camp 2010 Committee

&#160;

_To Attend, Speak, Volunteer, or Sponsor the Austin Code Camp go to_ [_http://Codecamp.Adnug.org_](http://Codecamp.Adnug.org)

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_erichexter/2010-03-15-discountasp-net-is-a-platinum-sponsor-of-austin-code-camp-2010.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 3007
title: DiscountASP.Net is a Platinum Sponsor of Austin Code Camp 2010
date: 2010-03-15T12:25:00+00:00
author: Eric Hexter
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/hex/archive/2010/03/15/discountasp-net-is-a-platinum-sponsor-of-austin-code-camp-2010.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "1107158636"
categories:
  - AustinCodeCamp
  - Community
redirect_from: "/blogs/hex/archive/2010/03/15/discountasp-net-is-a-platinum-sponsor-of-austin-code-camp-2010.aspx/"
---
_[<img style="border-right-width: 0px;border-top-width: 0px;border-bottom-width: 0px;border-left-width: 0px" border="0" alt="dasplogo_tagline" src="http://lostechies.com/erichexter/files/2011/03/dasplogo_tagline_37E67135.jpg" width="240" height="140" />](http://bit.ly/drsr6H)_ 

_DiscountASP.NET_ delivers the best value in cutting edge, enterprise-class shared ASP.NET Hosting through continuous innovation. We offer One Hosting Plan and Add-ons in the US and UK.

Information at [www.discountasp.net](http://bit.ly/drsr6H)

On behalf of the Austin .Net Users Group (ADNUG) and every attendee of Code Camp 2010, we would like to thank DiscountASP.Net for your contribution to Code Camp 2010. This event is funded by your contribution and would not be possible without your support of the local technology community:

Our Sincerest Thanks, 

Austin Code Camp 2010 Committee

&#160;

_To Attend, Speak, Volunteer, or Sponsor the Austin Code Camp go to_ [_http://Codecamp.Adnug.org_](http://Codecamp.Adnug.org)
