_erichexter/2010-03-12-devexpress-is-a-platinum-sponsor-of-austin-code-camp-2010.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 3006
title: DevExpress is a Platinum Sponsor of Austin Code Camp 2010
date: 2010-03-12T14:02:40+00:00
author: Eric Hexter
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/hex/archive/2010/03/12/devexpress-is-a-platinum-sponsor-of-austin-code-camp-2010.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "1105515523"
categories:
  - AustinCodeCamp
  - Community
  - Tools
---
**_[<img style="border-bottom: 0px;border-left: 0px;border-top: 0px;border-right: 0px" border="0" alt="dev-exp-logo-with-slogan-350" src="http://lostechies.com/erichexter/files/2011/03/devexplogowithslogan350_1456B2A6.png" width="240" height="71" />](http://bit.ly/b0Nv4N)_** 

**_Developer Express_ Inc.** develops Feature-Complete Components for ASP.Net and Winforms, Reporting Tools, IDE Add-ins, and Business Application Frameworks for Visual Studio.

Information at [www.devexpress.com](http://bit.ly/b0Nv4N)

On behalf of the Austin .Net Users Group (ADNUG) and every attendee of Code Camp 2010, we would like to thank DevExpress for your contribution to Code Camp 2010. This event is funded by your contribution and would not be possible without your support of the local technology community:

Our Sincerest Thanks, 

Austin Code Camp 2010 Committee

&#160;

_To Attend, Speak, Volunteer, or Sponsor the Austin Code Camp go to_ [_http://Codecamp.Adnug.org_](http://Codecamp.Adnug.org)

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_erichexter/2010-03-12-devexpress-is-a-platinum-sponsor-of-austin-code-camp-2010.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 3006
title: DevExpress is a Platinum Sponsor of Austin Code Camp 2010
date: 2010-03-12T14:02:40+00:00
author: Eric Hexter
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/hex/archive/2010/03/12/devexpress-is-a-platinum-sponsor-of-austin-code-camp-2010.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "1105515523"
categories:
  - AustinCodeCamp
  - Community
  - Tools
redirect_from: "/blogs/hex/archive/2010/03/12/devexpress-is-a-platinum-sponsor-of-austin-code-camp-2010.aspx/"
---
**_[<img style="border-bottom: 0px;border-left: 0px;border-top: 0px;border-right: 0px" border="0" alt="dev-exp-logo-with-slogan-350" src="http://lostechies.com/erichexter/files/2011/03/devexplogowithslogan350_1456B2A6.png" width="240" height="71" />](http://bit.ly/b0Nv4N)_** 

**_Developer Express_ Inc.** develops Feature-Complete Components for ASP.Net and Winforms, Reporting Tools, IDE Add-ins, and Business Application Frameworks for Visual Studio.

Information at [www.devexpress.com](http://bit.ly/b0Nv4N)

On behalf of the Austin .Net Users Group (ADNUG) and every attendee of Code Camp 2010, we would like to thank DevExpress for your contribution to Code Camp 2010. This event is funded by your contribution and would not be possible without your support of the local technology community:

Our Sincerest Thanks, 

Austin Code Camp 2010 Committee

&#160;

_To Attend, Speak, Volunteer, or Sponsor the Austin Code Camp go to_ [_http://Codecamp.Adnug.org_](http://Codecamp.Adnug.org)
