_joeocampo/2007-09-04-behave-merges-with-nbehave.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 46
title: 'Behave# merges with NBehave'
date: 2007-09-04T01:08:34+00:00
author: Joe Ocampo
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/joe_ocampo/archive/2007/09/03/behave-merges-with-nbehave.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262090871"
categories:
  - BDD (Behavior Driven Development)
---
This is really exciting news!

<img style="margin: 15px" height="285" src="http://www.exchange3d.com/cubecart/images/uploads/aff186/Road_Merging.jpg" width="380" align="right" />I am proud to say that Behave# and <a href="http://www.morganpersson.net/default.aspx" target="_blank">Morgan Persson&#8217;s</a>&nbsp;<a href="http://nbehave.org/" target="_blank">NBehave</a> project have combined into one OSS project under the moniker of <a href="http://www.nbehave.org/" target="_blank">NBehave</a>.&nbsp; We decided to keep the <a href="http://www.nbehave.org/" target="_blank">NBehave</a> name because as Morgan kindly put it:

> &#8220;&#8230;it connects to the cousin framework(s) in other languages/technologies like <a href="http://rspec.rubyforge.org/" target="_blank">RSpec</a>/<a href="http://nspec.tigris.org/" target="_blank">NSpec</a>, <a href="http://www.junit.org/" target="_blank">JUnit</a>/<a href="http://www.nunit.org/" target="_blank">NUnit</a>, <a href="http://www.hibernate.org/" target="_blank">Hibernate</a>/<a href="http://www.hibernate.org/343.html" target="_blank">NHibernate</a> etc. so it would only be natural to have <a href="http://rubyforge.org/projects/rbehave/" target="_blank">RBehave</a>/<a href="http://jbehave.org/" target="_blank">JBehave</a> and <a href="http://www.nbehave.org/" target="_blank">NBehave</a>.&#8221;

Our influence of RBehave that lead to creation of <a href="http://www.nbehave.org/" target="_blank">NBehave</a> fits well with this transition.

So what does that mean to us developers?

Well it means that you get to reference **one** framework to take advantage of BDD story authoring similar to RBehave and have fluent BDD syntax for lower level testing similar to JBehave.

It is awesome to see the evolution of the this project in such a short time. Three months to be exact!&nbsp; It spawned from a <a href="http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/joe_ocampo/archive/2007/06/28/introducing-nunit-behave-or-insert-what-ever-other-catchy-name.aspx" target="_blank">post</a> that ultimately led to a&nbsp;<a href="http://grabbagoft.blogspot.com/2007/07/introducing-behave.html" target="_blank">framework</a> and then to where we are today, with the merging of two similar projects.&nbsp; OSS is awesome I can&#8217;t think of any other model where software could evolve so quickly.&nbsp; Kudos&#8217; to everyone that has given us feedback and to the hard work of&nbsp;Jimmy and Morgan for making this all possible.

We currently released the beta version of&nbsp;NBehave and have it hosted <a href="http://www.codeplex.com/NBehave/Release/ProjectReleases.aspx?ReleaseId=6849" target="_blank">here</a> on <a href="http://www.codeplex.com/" target="_blank">CodePlex</a>.

We will be updating the <a href="http://www.codeplex.com/NBehave" target="_blank">WIKI</a> to keep you up to date on the latest enhancements and usages of NBehave.

Happy Testing!

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_joeocampo/2007-09-04-behave-merges-with-nbehave.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 46
title: 'Behave# merges with NBehave'
date: 2007-09-04T01:08:34+00:00
author: Joe Ocampo
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/joe_ocampo/archive/2007/09/03/behave-merges-with-nbehave.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262090871"
categories:
  - BDD (Behavior Driven Development)
redirect_from: "/blogs/joe_ocampo/archive/2007/09/03/behave-merges-with-nbehave.aspx/"
---
This is really exciting news!

<img style="margin: 15px" height="285" src="http://www.exchange3d.com/cubecart/images/uploads/aff186/Road_Merging.jpg" width="380" align="right" />I am proud to say that Behave# and <a href="http://www.morganpersson.net/default.aspx" target="_blank">Morgan Persson&#8217;s</a>&nbsp;<a href="http://nbehave.org/" target="_blank">NBehave</a> project have combined into one OSS project under the moniker of <a href="http://www.nbehave.org/" target="_blank">NBehave</a>.&nbsp; We decided to keep the <a href="http://www.nbehave.org/" target="_blank">NBehave</a> name because as Morgan kindly put it:

> &#8220;&#8230;it connects to the cousin framework(s) in other languages/technologies like <a href="http://rspec.rubyforge.org/" target="_blank">RSpec</a>/<a href="http://nspec.tigris.org/" target="_blank">NSpec</a>, <a href="http://www.junit.org/" target="_blank">JUnit</a>/<a href="http://www.nunit.org/" target="_blank">NUnit</a>, <a href="http://www.hibernate.org/" target="_blank">Hibernate</a>/<a href="http://www.hibernate.org/343.html" target="_blank">NHibernate</a> etc. so it would only be natural to have <a href="http://rubyforge.org/projects/rbehave/" target="_blank">RBehave</a>/<a href="http://jbehave.org/" target="_blank">JBehave</a> and <a href="http://www.nbehave.org/" target="_blank">NBehave</a>.&#8221;

Our influence of RBehave that lead to creation of <a href="http://www.nbehave.org/" target="_blank">NBehave</a> fits well with this transition.

So what does that mean to us developers?

Well it means that you get to reference **one** framework to take advantage of BDD story authoring similar to RBehave and have fluent BDD syntax for lower level testing similar to JBehave.

It is awesome to see the evolution of the this project in such a short time. Three months to be exact!&nbsp; It spawned from a <a href="http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/joe_ocampo/archive/2007/06/28/introducing-nunit-behave-or-insert-what-ever-other-catchy-name.aspx" target="_blank">post</a> that ultimately led to a&nbsp;<a href="http://grabbagoft.blogspot.com/2007/07/introducing-behave.html" target="_blank">framework</a> and then to where we are today, with the merging of two similar projects.&nbsp; OSS is awesome I can&#8217;t think of any other model where software could evolve so quickly.&nbsp; Kudos&#8217; to everyone that has given us feedback and to the hard work of&nbsp;Jimmy and Morgan for making this all possible.

We currently released the beta version of&nbsp;NBehave and have it hosted <a href="http://www.codeplex.com/NBehave/Release/ProjectReleases.aspx?ReleaseId=6849" target="_blank">here</a> on <a href="http://www.codeplex.com/" target="_blank">CodePlex</a>.

We will be updating the <a href="http://www.codeplex.com/NBehave" target="_blank">WIKI</a> to keep you up to date on the latest enhancements and usages of NBehave.

Happy Testing!
