_joeocampo/2007-11-30-bdd-macro-and-template-usage-screencast.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 84
title: BDD Macro and Template Usage screencast
date: 2007-11-30T06:47:26+00:00
author: Joe Ocampo
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/joe_ocampo/archive/2007/11/30/bdd-macro-and-template-usage-screencast.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262088316"
categories:
  - altnetconf
  - BDD (Behavior Driven Development)
---
What timing I just finished reading <a href="http://codebetter.com/blogs/jean-paul_boodhoo/archive/2007/11/29/getting-started-with-bdd-style-context-specification-base-na.aspx" target="_blank">JP&#8217;s blog</a> about how he paired with <a href="http://codebetter.com/blogs/scott.bellware/" target="_blank">Scott Bellware</a> and modified his Macro for BDD.&nbsp; Well, while they were busy doing that I decided to make a <a href="http://screencast.lostechies.com/screencasts/agilejoe/bdd_macro_fun/Joe_Ocampo_BDD_Macro_Fun.html" target="_blank">screencast</a> on some modifications I did to JP&#8217;s initial macro.&nbsp; I extended his macro in concert with some ReSharper templates I use to show just how to take advantage of BDD.&nbsp; Funny thing is I extended it to do the same thing he and Scott did but I added a little flare to it 🙂&nbsp; Take a look at the screen cast to see what I mean.

This is my first <a href="http://screencast.lostechies.com/screencasts/agilejoe/bdd_macro_fun/Joe_Ocampo_BDD_Macro_Fun.html" target="_blank">Screencast</a> and my allergies have been killing me lately, so I sound like and elf.&nbsp; Oh well.&nbsp; Enjoy.

I am using Visual Studio 2008 with <a href="http://www.jetbrains.com/resharper/" target="_blank">ReSharper</a> 3.0 and <a href="http://www.nunit.org/" target="_blank">NUnit</a> 2.4.3

The macro and ReSharper templates can be found <a href="http://agilejoe.googlecode.com/files/BDDMacrosAndReSharperTemplates.zip" target="_blank">here</a>.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_joeocampo/2007-11-30-bdd-macro-and-template-usage-screencast.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 84
title: BDD Macro and Template Usage screencast
date: 2007-11-30T06:47:26+00:00
author: Joe Ocampo
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/joe_ocampo/archive/2007/11/30/bdd-macro-and-template-usage-screencast.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262088316"
categories:
  - altnetconf
  - BDD (Behavior Driven Development)
redirect_from: "/blogs/joe_ocampo/archive/2007/11/30/bdd-macro-and-template-usage-screencast.aspx/"
---
What timing I just finished reading <a href="http://codebetter.com/blogs/jean-paul_boodhoo/archive/2007/11/29/getting-started-with-bdd-style-context-specification-base-na.aspx" target="_blank">JP&#8217;s blog</a> about how he paired with <a href="http://codebetter.com/blogs/scott.bellware/" target="_blank">Scott Bellware</a> and modified his Macro for BDD.&nbsp; Well, while they were busy doing that I decided to make a <a href="http://screencast.lostechies.com/screencasts/agilejoe/bdd_macro_fun/Joe_Ocampo_BDD_Macro_Fun.html" target="_blank">screencast</a> on some modifications I did to JP&#8217;s initial macro.&nbsp; I extended his macro in concert with some ReSharper templates I use to show just how to take advantage of BDD.&nbsp; Funny thing is I extended it to do the same thing he and Scott did but I added a little flare to it 🙂&nbsp; Take a look at the screen cast to see what I mean.

This is my first <a href="http://screencast.lostechies.com/screencasts/agilejoe/bdd_macro_fun/Joe_Ocampo_BDD_Macro_Fun.html" target="_blank">Screencast</a> and my allergies have been killing me lately, so I sound like and elf.&nbsp; Oh well.&nbsp; Enjoy.

I am using Visual Studio 2008 with <a href="http://www.jetbrains.com/resharper/" target="_blank">ReSharper</a> 3.0 and <a href="http://www.nunit.org/" target="_blank">NUnit</a> 2.4.3

The macro and ReSharper templates can be found <a href="http://agilejoe.googlecode.com/files/BDDMacrosAndReSharperTemplates.zip" target="_blank">here</a>.
