_joeocampo/2007-05-11-upgraded-to-community-server-2007.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 23
title: Upgraded to Community Server 2007
date: 2007-05-11T21:26:20+00:00
author: dbgreer@gmail.com
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/joe_ocampo/archive/2007/05/11/upgraded-to-community-server-2007.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262088216"
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
</p> 

For those that may have not noticed I upgraded my site to <a href="http://communityserver.org/" target="_blank">Community Server 2007</a> with the help of my fellow Los Techie, <a href="http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/jason_meridth/default.aspx" target="_blank">Jason Meridth</a>. Thanks Jason! 

I will be posting to <a href="http://www.agilejoe.com/" target="_blank">AgileJoe</a> and mirroring through <a href="http://www.lostechies.com/" target="_blank">Los Techies</a>. It makes things a lot easier for me since I do not have to maintain separate blogs. 

&nbsp; 

All of my original blog entries can still be found <a href="http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/joe_ocampo/default.aspx" target="_blank">here</a> on Los Techies. 

Cheers!

<img src="http://www.agilejoe.com/aggbug.aspx?PostID=11" width="1" height="1" />

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_joeocampo/2007-05-11-upgraded-to-community-server-2007.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 23
title: Upgraded to Community Server 2007
date: 2007-05-11T21:26:20+00:00
author: dbgreer@gmail.com
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/joe_ocampo/archive/2007/05/11/upgraded-to-community-server-2007.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262088216"
categories:
  - Uncategorized
redirect_from: "/blogs/joe_ocampo/archive/2007/05/11/upgraded-to-community-server-2007.aspx/"
---
</p> 

For those that may have not noticed I upgraded my site to <a href="http://communityserver.org/" target="_blank">Community Server 2007</a> with the help of my fellow Los Techie, <a href="http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/jason_meridth/default.aspx" target="_blank">Jason Meridth</a>. Thanks Jason! 

I will be posting to <a href="http://www.agilejoe.com/" target="_blank">AgileJoe</a> and mirroring through <a href="http://www.lostechies.com/" target="_blank">Los Techies</a>. It makes things a lot easier for me since I do not have to maintain separate blogs. 

&nbsp; 

All of my original blog entries can still be found <a href="http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/joe_ocampo/default.aspx" target="_blank">here</a> on Los Techies. 

Cheers!

<img src="http://www.agilejoe.com/aggbug.aspx?PostID=11" width="1" height="1" />
