---
wordpress_id: 25
title: Wife 1.0
date: 2007-06-11T14:23:00+00:00
author: Joe Ocampo
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/joe_ocampo/archive/2007/06/11/wife-1-0.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262088286"
categories:
  - Humor
---
I got his in an email this morning and I just had to share this.&nbsp; I am sure it has been proliferated through the SPAM network I mean Internet but who I am to slow innovation.&nbsp; Enjoy


  


> 
  
> 
> 
> Subject: wife 1.0
> 
> 
  
> 
> 
> Dear Tech Support:
  
> 
> 
> Last year I upgraded from Girlfriend 7.0 to Wife 1.0. I soon noticed
  
> 
> 
> that
  
> 
> 
> the new program began unexpected child processing that took up a lot of space and valuable resources.
  
> 
> 
> In addition, Wife 1.0 installed itself into all other programs and now monitors all other system activities, such as Poker Night 10.3, Football 5.0, Going To The Pub 7.5, and Softball 3.6
  
> 
> 
> I can&#8217;t seem to keep Wife 1.0 in the background while attempting to run my other favorite applications. I&#8217;m thinking about going back to Girlfriend
  
> 
> 
> 7.0 , but the uninstall doesn&#8217;t work on Wife 1.0.
  
> 
> 
> Please help!
  
> 
> 
> Thanks,
  
> 
> 
> Troubled User&#8230;..
  
> 
> 
> \___\___\___\___\___\___\___
  
> 
> 
> REPLY:
  
> 
> 
> Dear Troubled User:
  
> 
> 
> This is a very common problem that men often complain about.
  
> 
> 
> Many people upgrade from Girlfriend 7.0 to Wife 1.0, thinking that it is
  
> 
> 
> just a Utilities and Entertainment program. Wife 1.0 is an OPERATING
  
> 
> 
> SYSTEM and is designed by its Creator to run EVERYTHING!!! It is also impossible to delete Wife 1.0 and to return to Girlfriend 7.0 . It is impossible to uninstall, or purge, the program files from the system once installed.
  
> 
> 
> You cannot go back to Girlfriend 7.0 because Wife 1.0 is designed to not allow this. Look in your Wife 1.0 manual under Warnings: Alimony-Child Support . I recommend that you keep Wife 1.0 and work on improving the situation. I suggest installing the background application Yes Dear 2.7 to alleviate your program problems.
  
> 
> 
> The best course of action is to enter the command C:APOLOGIZE! because ultimately you will have to give the APOLOGIZE command before the system will return to normal anyway.
  
> 
> 
> Wife 1.0 is a great program, but it tends to be very high maintenance!
  
> 
> 
> Wife
  
> 
> 
> 1.0 does come with several support programs, such as Clean and Sweep 3.0, Cook It 1.5, and Do Bills 4.2
  
> 
> 
> However, be very careful how you use these programs. Improper use will cause the system to launch the program Nag Nag 9.5 . Once this happens, the only way to improve the performance of Wife 1.0 is to purchase additional software. I recommend Flowers 2.1 and Diamonds 5.0
  
> 
> 
> WARNING!!! DO NOT, under any circumstances, install Secretary With Short Skirt 3.3 . This application is not supported by Wife 1.0 and will cause irreversible damage to the operating system!
  
> 
> 
> Best of luck,
  
> 
> 
> Tech Support </BLOCKQUOTE>