_stevedonie/2009-03-18-looking-for-a-new-team-member.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 4767
title: Looking for a new team member
date: 2009-03-18T04:42:00+00:00
author: Steve Donie
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/stevedonie/archive/2009/03/18/looking-for-a-new-team-member.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "1249618248"
categories:
  - Agile
  - jobs
  - resume
---
<EDIT &#8211; this is long since filled, just in case you&#8217;re wondering.>

I have an immediate opening for a software developer.
  
Level of experience is not my primary criteria. I am more interested in
  
good object oriented design skills and a willingness and ability to
  
learn and work in a team environment.

**About the company:** Drillinginfo is a smallish company (about 100
  
people). We gather data on the
  
domestic oil and gas industry and put it all into a big database with a
  
web front end with search, maps, etc. We sell subscriptions to
  
companies ranging from 1-2 man shops all the way up to ExxonMobil. In
  
the past few years, we have been growing at an annual rate of 30-40%.
  
This year we expect that to be lower, but still growing. The company is
  
about 9 years old, is privately held (no venture capitalists telling us
  
what we should do this quarter), and has been profitable for several
  
years. We offer a comprehensive benefits package including a 401K with
  
match, company-assisted health insurance, vacation, etc. The company is headquartered in
  
Austin, TX, on the south side of town near Loop 360 and MoPac. We have
  
a great office space with views of downtown, direct access to the
  
Barton Creek greenbelt, an exercise room, covered parking, and free
  
lunch once a week. 

**About the team:** I
  
lead up the data integration team that writes the loaders bringing new
  
data into the system. The team is 5 people, and we work in a large team
  
room. We believe very strongly in the principles described in the agile
  
manifesto, and use most of the XP technical practices along with Scrum
  
project management practices. The software is 99% Java, with some
  
groovy used
  
in a few select places. We use a lot of open source tools and believe
  
in contributing back to those projects where we can. The great thing
  
about working here are the smart people you&#8217;ll get to work with, the
  
camaraderie of the team and the company, and the technical challenges
  
we run into daily.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_stevedonie/2009-03-18-looking-for-a-new-team-member.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 4767
title: Looking for a new team member
date: 2009-03-18T04:42:00+00:00
author: Steve Donie
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/stevedonie/archive/2009/03/18/looking-for-a-new-team-member.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "1249618248"
categories:
  - Agile
  - jobs
  - resume
redirect_from: "/blogs/stevedonie/archive/2009/03/18/looking-for-a-new-team-member.aspx/"
---
<EDIT &#8211; this is long since filled, just in case you&#8217;re wondering.>

I have an immediate opening for a software developer.
  
Level of experience is not my primary criteria. I am more interested in
  
good object oriented design skills and a willingness and ability to
  
learn and work in a team environment.

**About the company:** Drillinginfo is a smallish company (about 100
  
people). We gather data on the
  
domestic oil and gas industry and put it all into a big database with a
  
web front end with search, maps, etc. We sell subscriptions to
  
companies ranging from 1-2 man shops all the way up to ExxonMobil. In
  
the past few years, we have been growing at an annual rate of 30-40%.
  
This year we expect that to be lower, but still growing. The company is
  
about 9 years old, is privately held (no venture capitalists telling us
  
what we should do this quarter), and has been profitable for several
  
years. We offer a comprehensive benefits package including a 401K with
  
match, company-assisted health insurance, vacation, etc. The company is headquartered in
  
Austin, TX, on the south side of town near Loop 360 and MoPac. We have
  
a great office space with views of downtown, direct access to the
  
Barton Creek greenbelt, an exercise room, covered parking, and free
  
lunch once a week. 

**About the team:** I
  
lead up the data integration team that writes the loaders bringing new
  
data into the system. The team is 5 people, and we work in a large team
  
room. We believe very strongly in the principles described in the agile
  
manifesto, and use most of the XP technical practices along with Scrum
  
project management practices. The software is 99% Java, with some
  
groovy used
  
in a few select places. We use a lot of open source tools and believe
  
in contributing back to those projects where we can. The great thing
  
about working here are the smart people you&#8217;ll get to work with, the
  
camaraderie of the team and the company, and the technical challenges
  
we run into daily.
