_chadmyers/2009-09-18-dovetail-is-hiring-a-junior-to-mid-level-net-developer.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 154
title: Dovetail is Hiring a Junior-to-Mid-level .NET Developer
date: 2009-09-18T16:26:43+00:00
author: Chad Myers
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/chad_myers/archive/2009/09/18/dovetail-is-hiring-a-junior-to-mid-level-net-developer.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262114470"
categories:
  - .NET
  - Austin
  - Dovetail
  - hiring
---
Come work for one of the most progressive development shops in the US. This is an opportunity to work with some of the leaders in the .NET/C# space including Jeremy Miller and Joshua Flanagan – both senior developers, designers, architects, authors, and open source project leaders &#8212; with tons of experience. We use cutting edge project practices and our testers and information developers are integrated with the development team.

We’re building a new software product line using pioneering practices and technologies, such as:

  * Test-driven development 
  * Continuous integration 
  * Behavior-driven design 
  * Domain-driven design 
  * HTML, CSS, Javascript (jQuery) 
  * ASP .NET MVC 
  * C# 3.0, .NET 3.5, Visual Studio 2008 
  * SQL 2008 
  * NHibernate 2.x 
  * LINQ2NHibernate 
  * StructureMap 
  * Selenium Core and Selenium RC 
  * StoryTeller for automated acceptance testing 

**Who we’re looking for** || Dovetail Software is staffing a team for an innovative software project. We’re looking for junior- to mid-level software developers with demonstrable C# (preferably .NET 2.0 or later) and HTML/CSS experience (not necessarily ASP.NET, just web development in general). Any experience with test-driven development or automated unit testing in general is a huge plus.&#160; Also, participation in the community (attendance of events, avid blog reader + commenter, or maybe you even have a blog yourself) will put you firmly in the running for this position. We’re looking for people that believe learning and continuous improvement are primary responsibilities of a software developer. We’re hiring motivated people for a terrific opportunity with a team of recognized .NET and agile community leaders. If you’re not looking to rocket your knowledge and experience fast, please do not apply!

**Our development methodology** || We are an Agile shop (Scrum/XP, Kanban for tracking). We work without iterations in a continuous stream of development with frequent releases &#8212; not long crushing release cycles. We have a collaborative relationship with our customers. We write tests before we write functional code to clarify our design intentions. We keep the build clean. We work in an environment that maximizes communication to minimize the volume of spec documents. We build software that can effectively respond to change. We use open source tools where appropriate, and Microsoft tools where they make sense. We have executive support and visibility all the way up to the owner of the company.

**About Dovetail Software** || Serving companies since 1995, Dovetail Software develops CRM products for global 1000 enterprises. Our product, Dovetail CRM, is a comprehensive customer service and support, logistics management, customer self service, and knowledge management suite. Dovetail is a small company with big customers and great benefits for its employees. Our outstanding compensation package includes company-assisted health, dental, and life insurance, matching 401k, and more.

**About Texas** || Texas has outpaced every other state in the Union during the recent economic downturn. Texas added more jobs in 2008 than all the other 49 states _combined_. Texas’ economy continues to grow and lead the country in technology jobs.&#160; Seven of the top 25 fastest-growing cities in the U.S. are in Texas (according to the U.S. Census Bureau). The second-fastest growing city in the U.S. is Round Rock, a city in the same metro/commuter area of Austin.

**About Austin** || Placing second in the Large Cities Creativity Ranking, Austin is recognized as a city with a thriving music scene, ethnic and cultural diversity, endless outdoor recreations, and a great nightlife. It’s a nationally recognized center for technology innovation—home to 3,200 tech companies with 98,000 employees.&#160; In 2008, Forbes Magazine rated Austin the #1 fastest-growing large metro area in the US. [Austin is a great place to live and work](http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/chad_myers/archive/2008/04/21/move-to-austin.aspx)!

Email us and tell us why you’d make a great addition to our team: <tech-jobs@dovetailsoftware.com>

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_chadmyers/2009-09-18-dovetail-is-hiring-a-junior-to-mid-level-net-developer.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 154
title: Dovetail is Hiring a Junior-to-Mid-level .NET Developer
date: 2009-09-18T16:26:43+00:00
author: Chad Myers
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/chad_myers/archive/2009/09/18/dovetail-is-hiring-a-junior-to-mid-level-net-developer.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262114470"
categories:
  - .NET
  - Austin
  - Dovetail
  - hiring
redirect_from: "/blogs/chad_myers/archive/2009/09/18/dovetail-is-hiring-a-junior-to-mid-level-net-developer.aspx/"
---
Come work for one of the most progressive development shops in the US. This is an opportunity to work with some of the leaders in the .NET/C# space including Jeremy Miller and Joshua Flanagan – both senior developers, designers, architects, authors, and open source project leaders &#8212; with tons of experience. We use cutting edge project practices and our testers and information developers are integrated with the development team.

We’re building a new software product line using pioneering practices and technologies, such as:

  * Test-driven development 
  * Continuous integration 
  * Behavior-driven design 
  * Domain-driven design 
  * HTML, CSS, Javascript (jQuery) 
  * ASP .NET MVC 
  * C# 3.0, .NET 3.5, Visual Studio 2008 
  * SQL 2008 
  * NHibernate 2.x 
  * LINQ2NHibernate 
  * StructureMap 
  * Selenium Core and Selenium RC 
  * StoryTeller for automated acceptance testing 

**Who we’re looking for** || Dovetail Software is staffing a team for an innovative software project. We’re looking for junior- to mid-level software developers with demonstrable C# (preferably .NET 2.0 or later) and HTML/CSS experience (not necessarily ASP.NET, just web development in general). Any experience with test-driven development or automated unit testing in general is a huge plus.&#160; Also, participation in the community (attendance of events, avid blog reader + commenter, or maybe you even have a blog yourself) will put you firmly in the running for this position. We’re looking for people that believe learning and continuous improvement are primary responsibilities of a software developer. We’re hiring motivated people for a terrific opportunity with a team of recognized .NET and agile community leaders. If you’re not looking to rocket your knowledge and experience fast, please do not apply!

**Our development methodology** || We are an Agile shop (Scrum/XP, Kanban for tracking). We work without iterations in a continuous stream of development with frequent releases &#8212; not long crushing release cycles. We have a collaborative relationship with our customers. We write tests before we write functional code to clarify our design intentions. We keep the build clean. We work in an environment that maximizes communication to minimize the volume of spec documents. We build software that can effectively respond to change. We use open source tools where appropriate, and Microsoft tools where they make sense. We have executive support and visibility all the way up to the owner of the company.

**About Dovetail Software** || Serving companies since 1995, Dovetail Software develops CRM products for global 1000 enterprises. Our product, Dovetail CRM, is a comprehensive customer service and support, logistics management, customer self service, and knowledge management suite. Dovetail is a small company with big customers and great benefits for its employees. Our outstanding compensation package includes company-assisted health, dental, and life insurance, matching 401k, and more.

**About Texas** || Texas has outpaced every other state in the Union during the recent economic downturn. Texas added more jobs in 2008 than all the other 49 states _combined_. Texas’ economy continues to grow and lead the country in technology jobs.&#160; Seven of the top 25 fastest-growing cities in the U.S. are in Texas (according to the U.S. Census Bureau). The second-fastest growing city in the U.S. is Round Rock, a city in the same metro/commuter area of Austin.

**About Austin** || Placing second in the Large Cities Creativity Ranking, Austin is recognized as a city with a thriving music scene, ethnic and cultural diversity, endless outdoor recreations, and a great nightlife. It’s a nationally recognized center for technology innovation—home to 3,200 tech companies with 98,000 employees.&#160; In 2008, Forbes Magazine rated Austin the #1 fastest-growing large metro area in the US. [Austin is a great place to live and work](http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/chad_myers/archive/2008/04/21/move-to-austin.aspx)!

Email us and tell us why you’d make a great addition to our team: <tech-jobs@dovetailsoftware.com>
