_mokhan/2008-11-10-who-do-you-wanna-jott-twitter.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 4570
title: Who do you wanna Jott? Twitter
date: 2008-11-10T02:44:01+00:00
author: Mo Khan
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/mokhan/archive/2008/11/09/who-do-you-wanna-jott-twitter.aspx
categories:
  - Tools
---
So I recently started twittering&#8230; or tweeting. I&#8217;m not sure what the correct lingo is, so hook me up if you know. It all started a while back when [James](http://codebetter.com/blogs/james.kovacs/archive/2008/09/07/i-cry-uncle.aspx) announced that he was the newest Twit. He mentioned a WPF client called [Witty](http://code.google.com/p/wittytwitter/), and I wanted to see what it was all about. So I setup a [Twitter](http://twitter.com/) account to play with the app. After I had my fun, I never deleted my account. Or at least I never looked into how to delete my account.

About a week ago I received and email that a couple of people were following me on [Twitter](http://twitter.com/). Man that&#8217;s flattering to read:

> Hi, [mo_khan](http://twitter.com/mo_khan).   
> Kyle Baley (kbaley) is now following your updates on Twitter.   
> Check out Kyle Baley&#8217;s profile here:   
> <http://twitter.com/kbaley>   
> You may follow Kyle Baley as well by clicking on the &#8220;follow&#8221; button.   
> Best,   
> Twitter

Whaa&#8230; a celeb is interested in what I&#8217;m up to? **\*blush\*** So I jumped in, and so far it&#8217;s been pretty fun. I found another service called [&#8220;Jott&#8221;](http://jott.com/). Jott&#8217;s pretty cool, because I can call in to a number and I get an automated message that says:

&#8220;Who do you want to jott?&#8221;

I say &#8230; &#8220;Twitter&#8221;. Then I record my voice message. 

Jott then takes that message transcribes it in to text, pushes it up to my twitter page, and drops a tinyurl to the actual audio. Sweet&#8230; that saves me a few pennies worth of text messages. But there&#8217;s more&#8230;

I&#8217;m one of the poor saps who pay to much for mobile service up here in Canada, eh! I subscribe to [Rogers Wireless](http://rogers.com), and the plan called [&#8220;My5&#8221;](http://your.rogers.com/store/wireless/services/voice/my5.asp). I get to make unlimited phones calls to the 5 numbers that are in My5? So I put Jott on My5, and now I can shoot off messages to everyone for&#8230;.

Free Ninety Nine&#8230;. well almost! If you&#8217;re young, fabulous and ghetto broke (it aint funny) like myself then you ought to give [Jott](http://jott.com/) a try!

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_mokhan/2008-11-10-who-do-you-wanna-jott-twitter.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 4570
title: Who do you wanna Jott? Twitter
date: 2008-11-10T02:44:01+00:00
author: Mo Khan
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/mokhan/archive/2008/11/09/who-do-you-wanna-jott-twitter.aspx
categories:
  - Tools
redirect_from: "/blogs/mokhan/archive/2008/11/09/who-do-you-wanna-jott-twitter.aspx/"
---
So I recently started twittering&#8230; or tweeting. I&#8217;m not sure what the correct lingo is, so hook me up if you know. It all started a while back when [James](http://codebetter.com/blogs/james.kovacs/archive/2008/09/07/i-cry-uncle.aspx) announced that he was the newest Twit. He mentioned a WPF client called [Witty](http://code.google.com/p/wittytwitter/), and I wanted to see what it was all about. So I setup a [Twitter](http://twitter.com/) account to play with the app. After I had my fun, I never deleted my account. Or at least I never looked into how to delete my account.

About a week ago I received and email that a couple of people were following me on [Twitter](http://twitter.com/). Man that&#8217;s flattering to read:

> Hi, [mo_khan](http://twitter.com/mo_khan).   
> Kyle Baley (kbaley) is now following your updates on Twitter.   
> Check out Kyle Baley&#8217;s profile here:   
> <http://twitter.com/kbaley>   
> You may follow Kyle Baley as well by clicking on the &#8220;follow&#8221; button.   
> Best,   
> Twitter

Whaa&#8230; a celeb is interested in what I&#8217;m up to? **\*blush\*** So I jumped in, and so far it&#8217;s been pretty fun. I found another service called [&#8220;Jott&#8221;](http://jott.com/). Jott&#8217;s pretty cool, because I can call in to a number and I get an automated message that says:

&#8220;Who do you want to jott?&#8221;

I say &#8230; &#8220;Twitter&#8221;. Then I record my voice message. 

Jott then takes that message transcribes it in to text, pushes it up to my twitter page, and drops a tinyurl to the actual audio. Sweet&#8230; that saves me a few pennies worth of text messages. But there&#8217;s more&#8230;

I&#8217;m one of the poor saps who pay to much for mobile service up here in Canada, eh! I subscribe to [Rogers Wireless](http://rogers.com), and the plan called [&#8220;My5&#8221;](http://your.rogers.com/store/wireless/services/voice/my5.asp). I get to make unlimited phones calls to the 5 numbers that are in My5? So I put Jott on My5, and now I can shoot off messages to everyone for&#8230;.

Free Ninety Nine&#8230;. well almost! If you&#8217;re young, fabulous and ghetto broke (it aint funny) like myself then you ought to give [Jott](http://jott.com/) a try!
