_evanhoff/2007-10-24-database-normalization-is-for-sissies.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 15
title: Database Normalization Is for Sissies
date: 2007-10-24T22:31:32+00:00
author: Evan Hoff
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2007/10/24/database-normalization-is-for-sissies.aspx
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
Sorry, I rarely do link posts, but this is a must read (even if it is old news).

It&#8217;s a tongue and cheek look at database normalization.&nbsp; Ironically enough, it was given as a presentation to the data storage guys over at Microsoft.

As for the author, it was none other than Pat Helland.&nbsp; If you aren&#8217;t familiar with him, one of his other well-known works was <a href="http://www-db.cs.wisc.edu/cidr/cidr2007/papers/cidr07p15.pdf" target="_blank">Life Beyond Distributed Transactions: An Apostate&#8217;s Opinion</a>.&nbsp; You can find a profile of him <a href="http://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/arcjournal/bb735300.aspx" target="_blank">here</a>.&nbsp; 

He&nbsp;designed the architecture for the MS DTC, the new SQL Server Broker, and spent a couple years working on the product catalog over at Amazon.

You can find the presentation slides <a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/pathelland/archive/2007/07/23/normalization-is-for-sissies.aspx" target="_blank">on his blog</a>.

<a href="http://www.rgoarchitects.com/nblog/default.aspx" target="_blank">Arnon</a> had a good <a href="http://www.infoq.com/news/2007/08/denormalization" target="_blank">writeup</a> on this over at InfoQ.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_evanhoff/2007-10-24-database-normalization-is-for-sissies.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 15
title: Database Normalization Is for Sissies
date: 2007-10-24T22:31:32+00:00
author: Evan Hoff
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2007/10/24/database-normalization-is-for-sissies.aspx
categories:
  - Uncategorized
redirect_from: "/blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2007/10/24/database-normalization-is-for-sissies.aspx/"
---
Sorry, I rarely do link posts, but this is a must read (even if it is old news).

It&#8217;s a tongue and cheek look at database normalization.&nbsp; Ironically enough, it was given as a presentation to the data storage guys over at Microsoft.

As for the author, it was none other than Pat Helland.&nbsp; If you aren&#8217;t familiar with him, one of his other well-known works was <a href="http://www-db.cs.wisc.edu/cidr/cidr2007/papers/cidr07p15.pdf" target="_blank">Life Beyond Distributed Transactions: An Apostate&#8217;s Opinion</a>.&nbsp; You can find a profile of him <a href="http://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/arcjournal/bb735300.aspx" target="_blank">here</a>.&nbsp; 

He&nbsp;designed the architecture for the MS DTC, the new SQL Server Broker, and spent a couple years working on the product catalog over at Amazon.

You can find the presentation slides <a href="http://blogs.msdn.com/pathelland/archive/2007/07/23/normalization-is-for-sissies.aspx" target="_blank">on his blog</a>.

<a href="http://www.rgoarchitects.com/nblog/default.aspx" target="_blank">Arnon</a> had a good <a href="http://www.infoq.com/news/2007/08/denormalization" target="_blank">writeup</a> on this over at InfoQ.
