_evanhoff/2007-12-30-infinite-scaling-and-distributed-transactions.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 28
title: Infinite Scaling and Distributed Transactions
date: 2007-12-30T22:09:26+00:00
author: Evan Hoff
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2007/12/30/infinite-scaling-and-distributed-transactions.aspx
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
I posted a link to this paper a few days agon on one of the mailinglists I subscribe to.&nbsp; I thought I would share with you guys as well:

[Life Beyond Distributed Transactions: An Apostate&#8217;s Opinion](http://www-db.cs.wisc.edu/cidr/cidr2007/papers/cidr07p15.pdf)

This is a really good read from Pat Helland on scalability in really large applications.&nbsp; It&#8217;s not terribly new, but it&#8217;s definitely worth a read if you&#8217;ve not seen it before.

Personally, I like his descriptions of vertical and horizontal partitioning, but there&#8217;s quite a bit of meat there to chew on.

Pat Helland, btw, has worked for both Microsoft and Amazon.&nbsp; He was a key part of the team which designed the DTC.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_evanhoff/2007-12-30-infinite-scaling-and-distributed-transactions.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 28
title: Infinite Scaling and Distributed Transactions
date: 2007-12-30T22:09:26+00:00
author: Evan Hoff
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2007/12/30/infinite-scaling-and-distributed-transactions.aspx
categories:
  - Uncategorized
redirect_from: "/blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2007/12/30/infinite-scaling-and-distributed-transactions.aspx/"
---
I posted a link to this paper a few days agon on one of the mailinglists I subscribe to.&nbsp; I thought I would share with you guys as well:

[Life Beyond Distributed Transactions: An Apostate&#8217;s Opinion](http://www-db.cs.wisc.edu/cidr/cidr2007/papers/cidr07p15.pdf)

This is a really good read from Pat Helland on scalability in really large applications.&nbsp; It&#8217;s not terribly new, but it&#8217;s definitely worth a read if you&#8217;ve not seen it before.

Personally, I like his descriptions of vertical and horizontal partitioning, but there&#8217;s quite a bit of meat there to chew on.

Pat Helland, btw, has worked for both Microsoft and Amazon.&nbsp; He was a key part of the team which designed the DTC.
