_evanhoff/2007-10-28-joining-ineta-as-membership-mentor-for-tennessee-and-kentucky.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 19
title: Joining INETA as Membership Mentor for Tennessee and Kentucky
date: 2007-10-28T22:27:29+00:00
author: Evan Hoff
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2007/10/28/joining-ineta-as-membership-mentor-for-tennessee-and-kentucky.aspx
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
</p> 

For Immediate Release 

INETA North America Membership Division Announces: New Membership Mentor – Kentucky, Tennessee 

Evan Hoff, Nashville, TN, USA 

From INETA User Group: Nashville Visual Studio .NET User Group 

Bellevue, WA –October 27, 2007 – INETA North America Vice President in charge of the Membership Division, Chris Wallace, announced today the new Membership Mentor for the territory Kentucky, Tennessee &#8211; Evan Hoff. 

“INETA is proud to announce that Evan Hoff is now our Membership Mentor for Kentucky and Tennessee” Wallace said. “Evan comes highly recommended by those who know and recognize him for his tremendous work with our developer community. We are proud to call Evan one of our Membership Mentors.” 

Evan&nbsp;is now taking over the important INETA volunteer position of Membership Mentor and the duties that have been the responsibility of Scott Lock for KY and Scott Spradlin for TN. We thank each of them for their volunteer service to INETA as our Membership Mentors. Scott Spradlin has taken the position of INETA Sponsorship Director. &nbsp; 

“Please welcome Evan to this new position and extend every courtesy in working to succeed in our challenges ahead as we work together to build a stronger developer community. Good luck, Evan!” Wallace said. &nbsp; 

About Evan Hoff – After migrating to .NET shortly after the 1.0 release in 2002, Evan Hoff has spent the past few years working as a consultant in .NET projects both large and small.&nbsp;Industry experience has included ERP/CRM systems, entertainment marketing, mobile, and healthcare. Notable accomplishments include having his work featured in both television and print, making an appearance in Wired Magazine, and placing 3rd in Yahoo&#8217;s 2006 HackDay competition.&nbsp;He currently holds a consulting position with Compuware, Inc. in Nashville, TN.&nbsp; His passions include software design and the pragmatic application of better practices and processes. 

About INETA – INETA is a not-for-profit volunteer led organization whose mission is to provide services, resources, and networking opportunities to user groups and individual member’s interest in .NET technologies. The INETA focus is on face-to-face interaction through local user group meetings as well as larger regional, national, and worldwide events. 

The INETA worldwide team is a collection of five regions working together to foster the global goals of INETA through independently operated locally focused culturally personalized organizations under the INETA name. Currently, INETA supports more than 250 user groups that represent more than 150,000 developers in the United States and Canada, plus about four times that many in total worldwide. 

The INETA NorAm Membership Division is the exclusive internal organization that provides complete membership services to the INETA NorAm association members plus internal and external entities to the association. Membership Mentors act as advisor, counselor, guide, tutor, teacher, and guru of Membership to INETA member user group leadership and user groups. 

Supported by Microsoft Corporation and other sponsors, INETA is an independent volunteer organization run by user group leaders and developers, [http://www.ineta.org](http://www.ineta.org/).

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_evanhoff/2007-10-28-joining-ineta-as-membership-mentor-for-tennessee-and-kentucky.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 19
title: Joining INETA as Membership Mentor for Tennessee and Kentucky
date: 2007-10-28T22:27:29+00:00
author: Evan Hoff
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2007/10/28/joining-ineta-as-membership-mentor-for-tennessee-and-kentucky.aspx
categories:
  - Uncategorized
redirect_from: "/blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2007/10/28/joining-ineta-as-membership-mentor-for-tennessee-and-kentucky.aspx/"
---
</p> 

For Immediate Release 

INETA North America Membership Division Announces: New Membership Mentor – Kentucky, Tennessee 

Evan Hoff, Nashville, TN, USA 

From INETA User Group: Nashville Visual Studio .NET User Group 

Bellevue, WA –October 27, 2007 – INETA North America Vice President in charge of the Membership Division, Chris Wallace, announced today the new Membership Mentor for the territory Kentucky, Tennessee &#8211; Evan Hoff. 

“INETA is proud to announce that Evan Hoff is now our Membership Mentor for Kentucky and Tennessee” Wallace said. “Evan comes highly recommended by those who know and recognize him for his tremendous work with our developer community. We are proud to call Evan one of our Membership Mentors.” 

Evan&nbsp;is now taking over the important INETA volunteer position of Membership Mentor and the duties that have been the responsibility of Scott Lock for KY and Scott Spradlin for TN. We thank each of them for their volunteer service to INETA as our Membership Mentors. Scott Spradlin has taken the position of INETA Sponsorship Director. &nbsp; 

“Please welcome Evan to this new position and extend every courtesy in working to succeed in our challenges ahead as we work together to build a stronger developer community. Good luck, Evan!” Wallace said. &nbsp; 

About Evan Hoff – After migrating to .NET shortly after the 1.0 release in 2002, Evan Hoff has spent the past few years working as a consultant in .NET projects both large and small.&nbsp;Industry experience has included ERP/CRM systems, entertainment marketing, mobile, and healthcare. Notable accomplishments include having his work featured in both television and print, making an appearance in Wired Magazine, and placing 3rd in Yahoo&#8217;s 2006 HackDay competition.&nbsp;He currently holds a consulting position with Compuware, Inc. in Nashville, TN.&nbsp; His passions include software design and the pragmatic application of better practices and processes. 

About INETA – INETA is a not-for-profit volunteer led organization whose mission is to provide services, resources, and networking opportunities to user groups and individual member’s interest in .NET technologies. The INETA focus is on face-to-face interaction through local user group meetings as well as larger regional, national, and worldwide events. 

The INETA worldwide team is a collection of five regions working together to foster the global goals of INETA through independently operated locally focused culturally personalized organizations under the INETA name. Currently, INETA supports more than 250 user groups that represent more than 150,000 developers in the United States and Canada, plus about four times that many in total worldwide. 

The INETA NorAm Membership Division is the exclusive internal organization that provides complete membership services to the INETA NorAm association members plus internal and external entities to the association. Membership Mentors act as advisor, counselor, guide, tutor, teacher, and guru of Membership to INETA member user group leadership and user groups. 

Supported by Microsoft Corporation and other sponsors, INETA is an independent volunteer organization run by user group leaders and developers, [http://www.ineta.org](http://www.ineta.org/).
