_evanhoff/2007-10-28-alt-net-architecture-on-an-agile-project.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 18
title: 'ALT.NET: Architecture on an Agile Project'
date: 2007-10-28T18:15:34+00:00
author: Evan Hoff
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2007/10/28/alt-net-architecture-on-an-agile-project.aspx
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
I&#8217;m clipping this for myself.&nbsp; 😉

It&#8217;s a post from <a href="http://udidahan.weblogs.us/" target="_blank">Udi</a> on Agile Architecture.

> Here are my thoughts:
> 
> > &#8211; What&#8217;s hard about doing design in an Agile project?
> 
> Battling with <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_Ain't_Gonna_Need_It" target="_blank">YAGNI</a> people. The amount of up front design acceptable   
> to people depends on their experience. Some want to stop after   
> setting up 3 layers. Others are willing to continue up to MVP.
> 
> > I think it&#8217;s   
> > easier than Waterfall, but I want to hear from people with a   
> > background in Waterfall or RUP like processes.
> 
> I&#8217;ve done enough Waterfall and RUP to tell you that those camps tend   
> to do theoretical architecture and design &#8211; pictures and   
> powerpoints, but rarely actually try out their concepts in code.
> 
> > &#8211; How much of the architecture do you know upfront?
> 
> A better question would be how much can you figure out with   
> reasonable certainty. That again depends on experience, not only in   
> pure architectural work but in the specific domain. Understanding in   
> which dimensions these kinds of systems tend to change, and so on.   
> It&#8217;s been my experience that you can get quite a bit done.
> 
> > How are you   
> > under control and have any chance of successful delivery if you  
> > don&#8217;t know every detail of the design upfront?
> 
> Screw control. It&#8217;s more productive &#8211; even if you don&#8217;t have all the   
> details. Good architecture separates concerns enabling you to get   
> started where you do know more of the details, giving you more time   
> to figure out details in other areas as you go along. That&#8217;s agile   
> in my book.
> 
> > How do you make big Architectural decisions without blowing the   
> > iteration plan?
> 
> Decisions usually take 1 second &#8211; yes or no, and move on. Finding   
> out what to decide on can take longer. Again, good architecture   
> enables you to decide on bits and pieces at a time.
> 
> > Do you just do time boxed spikes?
> 
> Also that.
> 
> > How much architecture work do you do upfront these days?
> 
> As much as I get paid to do 🙂
> 
> > Do you still have a dedicated Architect, or is architecture shared   
> > throught the team or at least shared by the senior folks?
> 
> The size of projects I usually work on usually have a dedicated   
> architect. If members of the team are knowledgable, they are   
> involved. Regardless, you need buy in by the team doing the work &#8211;   
> nothing works better than pair programming with them for that.
> 
> > What about technical infrastructure that takes longer than one   
> > iteration to build? Is there really any such thing?
> 
> If it&#8217;s behind an interface, who cares? Handle its features just   
> like anything else.
> 
> > How do you avoid code churn? Do you?  
> > Is it really that big of a deal?
> 
> If I had to choose between productivity (in features units / time)   
> and not rewriting code, I&#8217;d choose productivity. Keep your eye on   
> the ball &#8211; that&#8217;s my plan.
> 
> Hopefully my necessarily colored opinions are worth something 🙂

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_evanhoff/2007-10-28-alt-net-architecture-on-an-agile-project.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 18
title: 'ALT.NET: Architecture on an Agile Project'
date: 2007-10-28T18:15:34+00:00
author: Evan Hoff
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2007/10/28/alt-net-architecture-on-an-agile-project.aspx
categories:
  - Uncategorized
redirect_from: "/blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2007/10/28/alt-net-architecture-on-an-agile-project.aspx/"
---
I&#8217;m clipping this for myself.&nbsp; 😉

It&#8217;s a post from <a href="http://udidahan.weblogs.us/" target="_blank">Udi</a> on Agile Architecture.

> Here are my thoughts:
> 
> > &#8211; What&#8217;s hard about doing design in an Agile project?
> 
> Battling with <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_Ain't_Gonna_Need_It" target="_blank">YAGNI</a> people. The amount of up front design acceptable   
> to people depends on their experience. Some want to stop after   
> setting up 3 layers. Others are willing to continue up to MVP.
> 
> > I think it&#8217;s   
> > easier than Waterfall, but I want to hear from people with a   
> > background in Waterfall or RUP like processes.
> 
> I&#8217;ve done enough Waterfall and RUP to tell you that those camps tend   
> to do theoretical architecture and design &#8211; pictures and   
> powerpoints, but rarely actually try out their concepts in code.
> 
> > &#8211; How much of the architecture do you know upfront?
> 
> A better question would be how much can you figure out with   
> reasonable certainty. That again depends on experience, not only in   
> pure architectural work but in the specific domain. Understanding in   
> which dimensions these kinds of systems tend to change, and so on.   
> It&#8217;s been my experience that you can get quite a bit done.
> 
> > How are you   
> > under control and have any chance of successful delivery if you  
> > don&#8217;t know every detail of the design upfront?
> 
> Screw control. It&#8217;s more productive &#8211; even if you don&#8217;t have all the   
> details. Good architecture separates concerns enabling you to get   
> started where you do know more of the details, giving you more time   
> to figure out details in other areas as you go along. That&#8217;s agile   
> in my book.
> 
> > How do you make big Architectural decisions without blowing the   
> > iteration plan?
> 
> Decisions usually take 1 second &#8211; yes or no, and move on. Finding   
> out what to decide on can take longer. Again, good architecture   
> enables you to decide on bits and pieces at a time.
> 
> > Do you just do time boxed spikes?
> 
> Also that.
> 
> > How much architecture work do you do upfront these days?
> 
> As much as I get paid to do 🙂
> 
> > Do you still have a dedicated Architect, or is architecture shared   
> > throught the team or at least shared by the senior folks?
> 
> The size of projects I usually work on usually have a dedicated   
> architect. If members of the team are knowledgable, they are   
> involved. Regardless, you need buy in by the team doing the work &#8211;   
> nothing works better than pair programming with them for that.
> 
> > What about technical infrastructure that takes longer than one   
> > iteration to build? Is there really any such thing?
> 
> If it&#8217;s behind an interface, who cares? Handle its features just   
> like anything else.
> 
> > How do you avoid code churn? Do you?  
> > Is it really that big of a deal?
> 
> If I had to choose between productivity (in features units / time)   
> and not rewriting code, I&#8217;d choose productivity. Keep your eye on   
> the ball &#8211; that&#8217;s my plan.
> 
> Hopefully my necessarily colored opinions are worth something 🙂
