_evanhoff/2008-07-03-book-review-it-architectures-and-middleware-2-ed.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 55
title: '[Book Review] IT Architectures and Middleware (2 Ed)'
date: 2008-07-03T23:09:31+00:00
author: Evan Hoff
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2008/07/03/book-review-it-architectures-and-middleware-2-ed.aspx
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
**What is Middleware?**

Whether your aim is to build a single, large distributed system or to integrate multiple existing systems into a single, large system-of-systems, middleware is your key to success.&nbsp; When you begin to distribute across multiple processes, whether they are on the same or different machines, middleware is the stuff &#8220;in the middle&#8221; that allows the different parts to talk.

A few examples of middleware would include:

  * .NET Remoting
  * ASMX Webservices
  * WCF
  * MSMQ
  * ADO.NET
  * Oracle Data Provider
  * .NET&#8217;s Common Language Runtime
  * A Java Virtual Machine Implementation
  * COM+

**Why would you want to learn about it?**

There are many different implementations of middleware&#8211;as you can see from my example list above.&nbsp; If you want to be able to make an informed decision when choosing among multiple suitable implementations, it&#8217;s important to be able to recognize both the sweet spots and the pain points for each type.&nbsp; It&#8217;s this knowledge that will allow you to know which tool is most suitable&#8211;both for your current needs and, potentially, your future needs as well.

**What about the book?**

<a href="http://www.amazon.com/Architectures-Middleware-Strategies-Building-Integrated/dp/0321246942/" target="_blank"><img style="border-right: 0px;border-top: 0px;margin: 0px 15px 0px 0px;border-left: 0px;border-bottom: 0px" height="237" alt="britton" src="http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/evan_hoff/WindowsLiveWriter/BookReviewITArchitecturesandMiddleware2E_10D32/britton_3.jpg" width="160" align="left" border="0" /></a> I picked up a copy of the 2nd edition, which was published in 2004.&nbsp; The original was published back in December of 2000.&nbsp; The driving reason I chose to read this book was that I found it referenced from several other items I had read previously (which I can&#8217;t remember at the moment).

Overall, I&#8217;d give this book 3 stars out of 5.&nbsp; Although, I know that if I had read this several years ago, I would have no doubt rated it higher.&nbsp; A few places in the book deal with specific vendor technologies, including .NET, and given the publish date, it&#8217;s age is starting to show a bit.

One thing I really liked about this book was the way in which the authors chose to explain the concept of middleware&#8211;even the diagrams were simple and elegant.&nbsp; They also took the time to touch on a few quality attributes: resiliency, performance, and scalability (to name a few).

One area that seemed a little rough was on the topic of asynchronous message queuing.&nbsp; A few spots seemed to give conflicting assessments on the technique&#8211;although I&#8217;d probably guess some of that information just didn&#8217;t get scrutinized close enough during the revision.

Although I liked the book overall, this particular review is a little tough to write.&nbsp; I didn&#8217;t feel like the book stretched me very far from my current understanding.&nbsp; Whether that&#8217;s a sign of me maturing or a reflection on the author&#8217;s writing I&#8217;ll leave for another discussion.

In short, if you are looking to get your feet wet with middleware and related concepts, this is a good book to reach for.&nbsp; Don&#8217;t think, however, that any single book will be sufficient to learn the concepts in depth.&nbsp; If you are new to the topic, this would serve as a good introduction.&nbsp; If you&#8217;ve been around the block a few times, it would serve as a nice refresher.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_evanhoff/2008-07-03-book-review-it-architectures-and-middleware-2-ed.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 55
title: '[Book Review] IT Architectures and Middleware (2 Ed)'
date: 2008-07-03T23:09:31+00:00
author: Evan Hoff
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2008/07/03/book-review-it-architectures-and-middleware-2-ed.aspx
categories:
  - Uncategorized
redirect_from: "/blogs/evan_hoff/archive/2008/07/03/book-review-it-architectures-and-middleware-2-ed.aspx/"
---
**What is Middleware?**

Whether your aim is to build a single, large distributed system or to integrate multiple existing systems into a single, large system-of-systems, middleware is your key to success.&nbsp; When you begin to distribute across multiple processes, whether they are on the same or different machines, middleware is the stuff &#8220;in the middle&#8221; that allows the different parts to talk.

A few examples of middleware would include:

  * .NET Remoting
  * ASMX Webservices
  * WCF
  * MSMQ
  * ADO.NET
  * Oracle Data Provider
  * .NET&#8217;s Common Language Runtime
  * A Java Virtual Machine Implementation
  * COM+

**Why would you want to learn about it?**

There are many different implementations of middleware&#8211;as you can see from my example list above.&nbsp; If you want to be able to make an informed decision when choosing among multiple suitable implementations, it&#8217;s important to be able to recognize both the sweet spots and the pain points for each type.&nbsp; It&#8217;s this knowledge that will allow you to know which tool is most suitable&#8211;both for your current needs and, potentially, your future needs as well.

**What about the book?**

<a href="http://www.amazon.com/Architectures-Middleware-Strategies-Building-Integrated/dp/0321246942/" target="_blank"><img style="border-right: 0px;border-top: 0px;margin: 0px 15px 0px 0px;border-left: 0px;border-bottom: 0px" height="237" alt="britton" src="http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/evan_hoff/WindowsLiveWriter/BookReviewITArchitecturesandMiddleware2E_10D32/britton_3.jpg" width="160" align="left" border="0" /></a> I picked up a copy of the 2nd edition, which was published in 2004.&nbsp; The original was published back in December of 2000.&nbsp; The driving reason I chose to read this book was that I found it referenced from several other items I had read previously (which I can&#8217;t remember at the moment).

Overall, I&#8217;d give this book 3 stars out of 5.&nbsp; Although, I know that if I had read this several years ago, I would have no doubt rated it higher.&nbsp; A few places in the book deal with specific vendor technologies, including .NET, and given the publish date, it&#8217;s age is starting to show a bit.

One thing I really liked about this book was the way in which the authors chose to explain the concept of middleware&#8211;even the diagrams were simple and elegant.&nbsp; They also took the time to touch on a few quality attributes: resiliency, performance, and scalability (to name a few).

One area that seemed a little rough was on the topic of asynchronous message queuing.&nbsp; A few spots seemed to give conflicting assessments on the technique&#8211;although I&#8217;d probably guess some of that information just didn&#8217;t get scrutinized close enough during the revision.

Although I liked the book overall, this particular review is a little tough to write.&nbsp; I didn&#8217;t feel like the book stretched me very far from my current understanding.&nbsp; Whether that&#8217;s a sign of me maturing or a reflection on the author&#8217;s writing I&#8217;ll leave for another discussion.

In short, if you are looking to get your feet wet with middleware and related concepts, this is a good book to reach for.&nbsp; Don&#8217;t think, however, that any single book will be sufficient to learn the concepts in depth.&nbsp; If you are new to the topic, this would serve as a good introduction.&nbsp; If you&#8217;ve been around the block a few times, it would serve as a nice refresher.
