_joshuaflanagan/2009-03-08-but-don-t-worry-webforms-is-not-going-away.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 3943
title: But don’t worry, WebForms is not going away…
date: 2009-03-08T22:23:40+00:00
author: Joshua Flanagan
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/joshuaflanagan/archive/2009/03/08/but-don-t-worry-webforms-is-not-going-away.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "298632718"
categories:
  - JQuery
  - MVC
---
I got a kick out of <a href="http://codebetter.com/blogs/jeremy.miller/archive/2009/03/08/why-i-prefer-the-mvc-model-2-style-over-webforms.aspx" target="_blank">Jeremy’s eye poke at the ASP.NET WebForms</a> “simpler” approach to web development.

In the same spirit, remember how convoluted it was to <a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb398998.aspx" target="_blank">call simple JSON services from WebForms</a>? Well, my friend and former colleague <a href="http://shashankshetty.wordpress.com/" target="_blank">Shashank Shetty</a> shows how it is done with <a href="http://shashankshetty.wordpress.com/2009/03/04/using-jsonresult-with-jquery-in-aspnet-mvc/" target="_blank">ASP.NET MVC and jQuery</a> in his inaugural blog post.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_joshuaflanagan/2009-03-08-but-don-t-worry-webforms-is-not-going-away.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 3943
title: But don’t worry, WebForms is not going away…
date: 2009-03-08T22:23:40+00:00
author: Joshua Flanagan
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/joshuaflanagan/archive/2009/03/08/but-don-t-worry-webforms-is-not-going-away.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "298632718"
categories:
  - JQuery
  - MVC
redirect_from: "/blogs/joshuaflanagan/archive/2009/03/08/but-don-t-worry-webforms-is-not-going-away.aspx/"
---
I got a kick out of <a href="http://codebetter.com/blogs/jeremy.miller/archive/2009/03/08/why-i-prefer-the-mvc-model-2-style-over-webforms.aspx" target="_blank">Jeremy’s eye poke at the ASP.NET WebForms</a> “simpler” approach to web development.

In the same spirit, remember how convoluted it was to <a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb398998.aspx" target="_blank">call simple JSON services from WebForms</a>? Well, my friend and former colleague <a href="http://shashankshetty.wordpress.com/" target="_blank">Shashank Shetty</a> shows how it is done with <a href="http://shashankshetty.wordpress.com/2009/03/04/using-jsonresult-with-jquery-in-aspnet-mvc/" target="_blank">ASP.NET MVC and jQuery</a> in his inaugural blog post.
