_jimmybogard/2007-08-27-agile-references-for-pms.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 56
title: Agile references for PMs
date: 2007-08-27T20:26:00+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2007/08/27/agile-references-for-pms.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "277469418"
categories:
  - Agile
---
> _This post was originally published [here](http://grabbagoft.blogspot.com/2007/08/agile-references-for-pms.html)._

By &#8220;PM&#8221;, I&#8217;m referring to Project Managers.&nbsp; Adopting Agile can be a scary proposition for those entrenched in waterfall processes.&nbsp; I have a lot of sympathy for PMs whose dev team decides to switch to Agile out from under them.&nbsp; PMs need not be left behind, and in fact, have a very valuable role in Agile development, just not what they might be used to.&nbsp; I see it as a re-education on the reality of software development, that Gantt charts don&#8217;t define reality, they distort and mislead those trying to make decisions based on reality.&nbsp; Here are a list of references that will help those on the PM side try to make sense of those crazy developers and their Agile ideas.

  * Intro to Agile and overview
  * [Quick intro into Lean](http://processpeoplepods.blogspot.com/2007/08/lean-agile-management-process_27.html), an Agile management process, from [Fred George](http://processpeoplepods.blogspot.com/), a VP at [ThoughtWorks](http://www.thoughtworks.com/)
  * [Agile & Iterative Development: A Manager&#8217;s Guide](http://www.amazon.com/Agile-Iterative-Development-Managers-Guide/dp/0131111558), Craig Larman
  * A great book on the history of iterative development and an overview of several Agile processes

  * [Agile Project Management](http://www.amazon.com/Agile-Project-Management-Innovative-Development/dp/0321219775), Jim Highsmith
  * Guide for PMs to learn or adapt Agile

  * [Agile Manifesto](http://agilemanifesto.org/)
  * Also&nbsp;check out&nbsp;the list of principles

  * Specific processes
  * [Scrum process guidance](http://www.scrumforteamsystem.com/ProcessGuidance/index.html)&nbsp;from the VSTS process template, Scrum for Team System
  * Great presentation and overview of Scrum 

  * [Agile Software Development with SCRUM](http://www.amazon.com/Agile-Software-Development-SCRUM-Schwaber/dp/0130676349/), Ken Schwaber
  * Explanation of key Scrum roles, artifacts, and processes in more detail

  * [Agile Project Management with Scrum](http://www.amazon.com/Agile-Project-Management-Microsoft-Professional/dp/073561993X/), Ken Schwaber
  * Case studies from PM&nbsp;and other role&#8217;s viewpoints on many different projects and scenarios

  * [Enterprise Scrum](http://www.amazon.com/Enterprise-Scrum-Ken-Schwaber/dp/0735623376/), Ken Schwaber
  * Scaling Scrum out to the enterprise level

  * [Lean Software Development](http://www.amazon.com/Lean-Software-Development-Toolkit-Managers/dp/0321150783/), Mary Poppendieck, Tom Poppendieck
  * More information on Lean, which evolved from the Toyota production system

  * Other PM-related activities
  * [Agile Estimation and Planning](http://www.amazon.com/Agile-Estimating-Planning-Robert-Martin/dp/0131479415/), Mike Cohn
  * Guide for creating realistic, accurate estimates for use in any Agile process

  * [User Stories Applied](http://www.amazon.com/User-Stories-Applied-Development-Addison-Wesley/dp/0321205685/),&nbsp;Mike Cohn
  * Or, why &#8220;The system shall&#8221; style requirements are evil

Eliminating the PM role is ultimately a mistake for a dev team moving to Agile, as someone eventually has to answer the $$$ questions.&nbsp; Putting the onus on the development team/organization to determine costs, staffing, direction, etc., can drag their focus away from delivering business value.&nbsp; Not having&nbsp;a&nbsp;PM&nbsp;on your team&nbsp;(or reducing the role of the PM)&nbsp;is the quick-and-dirty fix to a dev team&#8217;s Gantt chart nightmares, but eliminating that role won&#8217;t address the business needs of having the role in the first place.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_jimmybogard/2007-08-27-agile-references-for-pms.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 56
title: Agile references for PMs
date: 2007-08-27T20:26:00+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2007/08/27/agile-references-for-pms.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "277469418"
categories:
  - Agile
redirect_from: "/blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2007/08/27/agile-references-for-pms.aspx/"
---
> _This post was originally published [here](http://grabbagoft.blogspot.com/2007/08/agile-references-for-pms.html)._

By &#8220;PM&#8221;, I&#8217;m referring to Project Managers.&nbsp; Adopting Agile can be a scary proposition for those entrenched in waterfall processes.&nbsp; I have a lot of sympathy for PMs whose dev team decides to switch to Agile out from under them.&nbsp; PMs need not be left behind, and in fact, have a very valuable role in Agile development, just not what they might be used to.&nbsp; I see it as a re-education on the reality of software development, that Gantt charts don&#8217;t define reality, they distort and mislead those trying to make decisions based on reality.&nbsp; Here are a list of references that will help those on the PM side try to make sense of those crazy developers and their Agile ideas.

  * Intro to Agile and overview
  * [Quick intro into Lean](http://processpeoplepods.blogspot.com/2007/08/lean-agile-management-process_27.html), an Agile management process, from [Fred George](http://processpeoplepods.blogspot.com/), a VP at [ThoughtWorks](http://www.thoughtworks.com/)
  * [Agile & Iterative Development: A Manager&#8217;s Guide](http://www.amazon.com/Agile-Iterative-Development-Managers-Guide/dp/0131111558), Craig Larman
  * A great book on the history of iterative development and an overview of several Agile processes

  * [Agile Project Management](http://www.amazon.com/Agile-Project-Management-Innovative-Development/dp/0321219775), Jim Highsmith
  * Guide for PMs to learn or adapt Agile

  * [Agile Manifesto](http://agilemanifesto.org/)
  * Also&nbsp;check out&nbsp;the list of principles

  * Specific processes
  * [Scrum process guidance](http://www.scrumforteamsystem.com/ProcessGuidance/index.html)&nbsp;from the VSTS process template, Scrum for Team System
  * Great presentation and overview of Scrum 

  * [Agile Software Development with SCRUM](http://www.amazon.com/Agile-Software-Development-SCRUM-Schwaber/dp/0130676349/), Ken Schwaber
  * Explanation of key Scrum roles, artifacts, and processes in more detail

  * [Agile Project Management with Scrum](http://www.amazon.com/Agile-Project-Management-Microsoft-Professional/dp/073561993X/), Ken Schwaber
  * Case studies from PM&nbsp;and other role&#8217;s viewpoints on many different projects and scenarios

  * [Enterprise Scrum](http://www.amazon.com/Enterprise-Scrum-Ken-Schwaber/dp/0735623376/), Ken Schwaber
  * Scaling Scrum out to the enterprise level

  * [Lean Software Development](http://www.amazon.com/Lean-Software-Development-Toolkit-Managers/dp/0321150783/), Mary Poppendieck, Tom Poppendieck
  * More information on Lean, which evolved from the Toyota production system

  * Other PM-related activities
  * [Agile Estimation and Planning](http://www.amazon.com/Agile-Estimating-Planning-Robert-Martin/dp/0131479415/), Mike Cohn
  * Guide for creating realistic, accurate estimates for use in any Agile process

  * [User Stories Applied](http://www.amazon.com/User-Stories-Applied-Development-Addison-Wesley/dp/0321205685/),&nbsp;Mike Cohn
  * Or, why &#8220;The system shall&#8221; style requirements are evil

Eliminating the PM role is ultimately a mistake for a dev team moving to Agile, as someone eventually has to answer the $$$ questions.&nbsp; Putting the onus on the development team/organization to determine costs, staffing, direction, etc., can drag their focus away from delivering business value.&nbsp; Not having&nbsp;a&nbsp;PM&nbsp;on your team&nbsp;(or reducing the role of the PM)&nbsp;is the quick-and-dirty fix to a dev team&#8217;s Gantt chart nightmares, but eliminating that role won&#8217;t address the business needs of having the role in the first place.
