---
wordpress_id: 10
title: Feedback
date: 2007-04-23T13:01:00+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2007/04/23/feedback.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "265553069"
categories:
  - Agile
redirect_from: "/blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2007/04/23/feedback.aspx/"
---
> _This post was originally published [here](http://grabbagoft.blogspot.com/2007/06/feedback.html)._

I found a great list of items about feedback [here](http://sirenian.livejournal.com/36847.html). For a TFS version, substitute &#8220;[Automaton](http://www.codeplex.com/automation)&#8221; or &#8220;Orcas Beta 1&#8221; for &#8220;Cruise Control&#8221;.

  * Because our customer doesn&#8217;t know what he wants, he finds out from the people that want the system. He sometimes gets this wrong. 
      * Because I don&#8217;t know what to code, I find out from our customer. I sometimes get this wrong. 
          * Because I make mistakes while coding, I work with an IDE. My IDE corrects me when I&#8217;m wrong. 
              * Because I make mistakes while thinking, I work with a pair. My pair corrects me when I&#8217;m wrong. 
                  * Because my pair is human and also makes mistakes, we write unit tests. Our unit tests correct us when we&#8217;re wrong. 
                      * Because we have a team who are also coding, we integrate with their code. Our code won&#8217;t compile if we&#8217;re wrong. 
                          * Because our team makes mistakes, we write acceptance tests that exercise the whole system. Our acceptance tests will fail if we&#8217;re wrong. 
                              * Because we make mistakes writing acceptance tests, we get QA to help us. QA will tell us if we&#8217;re wrong. 
                                  * Because we forget to run the acceptance tests, we get Cruise Control to run them for us. Cruise Control will tell us if we&#8217;re wrong. 
                                      * Because we forget to maintain the acceptance tests, we get QA to check that the system still works. QA will tell us if it&#8217;s wrong. 
                                          * Because we only made it work on Henry&#8217;s laptop, we deploy the system to a realistic environment. It won&#8217;t work if the deployment is wrong. 
                                              * Because we sometimes misunderstand our customer, we showcase the system. Our customer will tell us if we&#8217;re wrong. 
                                                  * Because our customer sometimes misunderstands the people that want the system, we put the system in production. The people who want it tell us if we&#8217;re wrong. 
                                                      * Because it costs money to get it wrong, we do all these things as often as we can. That way we are only ever a little bit wrong. 
                                                        I&#8217;ve lost count the number of times better feedback has enabled me to make quicker and better decisions in development. I&#8217;ve also lost count the number of times lack of feedback or lack of timely feedback came back and bit me later. That&#8217;s why we see so many efforts to automate builds and tests. It&#8217;s no secret that better feedback and communication from business owners increases the likelihood of success on a project. It follows then that better feedback and communication from our code should also give a similar effect.