_jimmybogard/2007-05-07-consistency-in-user-interface-behavior.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 15
title: Consistency in user interface behavior
date: 2007-05-07T13:39:00+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2007/05/07/consistency-in-user-interface-behavior.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "439586202"
categories:
  - Rant
---
> _This post was originally published [here](http://grabbagoft.blogspot.com/2007/06/consistency-in-user-interface-behavior.html)._

I know I can&#8217;t be the only person that gets annoyed by this, but the developers of Windows Messenger and Office Communicator must have been on crack when they determined behavior for the &#8220;Close&#8221; and &#8220;Minimize&#8221; button.&nbsp; Every application I have ever used closes when I hit &#8220;X&#8221; and minimizes when I hit &#8220;\_&#8221; in the title bar.&nbsp; Tray icon applications are even smart enough to minimize to the tray when I hit &#8220;\_&#8221;.&nbsp; But they still close when I hit &#8220;X&#8221;.

For some reason MS wants to be above this.&nbsp; When you hit &#8220;X&#8221;, it doesn&#8217;t close Communicator.&nbsp; No, you didn&#8217;t REALLY mean to close (exit)&nbsp;it, you just wanted to minimize it to the tray icon.&nbsp; For some funny reason, 99.9% of all tray icon applications actually CLOSE and EXIT when I hit &#8220;X&#8221;.&nbsp; Even other MS tray icon applications follow this rule.&nbsp; I use Virtual PC 2007, and when I hit &#8220;X&#8221;, it exits the whole application.&nbsp; When I hit &#8220;\_&#8221;, it minimizes to the tray.&nbsp; But now I have to think twice when I have VPC 2007 open.&nbsp; I have to wonder, is this one of those MS applications where close means minimize?&nbsp; Oops, I clicked &#8220;X&#8221;, and that was really &#8220;Close&#8221; for this one.&nbsp; Time to start over.&nbsp; So now with MS tray icon applications I always click &#8220;\_&#8221; first to try and minimize to tray, and if that doesn&#8217;t work, I&#8217;ll click &#8220;X&#8221; next.&nbsp; Forever a two-step process, thanks a bunch.&nbsp; Real intuitive.

Lack of consistency in the behavior of common tasks such as clicking the &#8220;X&#8221; button just kill me.&nbsp; You may want a New and Improved Way of doing things, but if you violate the consistency and expected behavior of an operation, you&#8217;ll likely infuriate your end users no matter how great the new behavior may be.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_jimmybogard/2007-05-07-consistency-in-user-interface-behavior.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 15
title: Consistency in user interface behavior
date: 2007-05-07T13:39:00+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2007/05/07/consistency-in-user-interface-behavior.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "439586202"
categories:
  - Rant
redirect_from: "/blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2007/05/07/consistency-in-user-interface-behavior.aspx/"
---
> _This post was originally published [here](http://grabbagoft.blogspot.com/2007/06/consistency-in-user-interface-behavior.html)._

I know I can&#8217;t be the only person that gets annoyed by this, but the developers of Windows Messenger and Office Communicator must have been on crack when they determined behavior for the &#8220;Close&#8221; and &#8220;Minimize&#8221; button.&nbsp; Every application I have ever used closes when I hit &#8220;X&#8221; and minimizes when I hit &#8220;\_&#8221; in the title bar.&nbsp; Tray icon applications are even smart enough to minimize to the tray when I hit &#8220;\_&#8221;.&nbsp; But they still close when I hit &#8220;X&#8221;.

For some reason MS wants to be above this.&nbsp; When you hit &#8220;X&#8221;, it doesn&#8217;t close Communicator.&nbsp; No, you didn&#8217;t REALLY mean to close (exit)&nbsp;it, you just wanted to minimize it to the tray icon.&nbsp; For some funny reason, 99.9% of all tray icon applications actually CLOSE and EXIT when I hit &#8220;X&#8221;.&nbsp; Even other MS tray icon applications follow this rule.&nbsp; I use Virtual PC 2007, and when I hit &#8220;X&#8221;, it exits the whole application.&nbsp; When I hit &#8220;\_&#8221;, it minimizes to the tray.&nbsp; But now I have to think twice when I have VPC 2007 open.&nbsp; I have to wonder, is this one of those MS applications where close means minimize?&nbsp; Oops, I clicked &#8220;X&#8221;, and that was really &#8220;Close&#8221; for this one.&nbsp; Time to start over.&nbsp; So now with MS tray icon applications I always click &#8220;\_&#8221; first to try and minimize to tray, and if that doesn&#8217;t work, I&#8217;ll click &#8220;X&#8221; next.&nbsp; Forever a two-step process, thanks a bunch.&nbsp; Real intuitive.

Lack of consistency in the behavior of common tasks such as clicking the &#8220;X&#8221; button just kill me.&nbsp; You may want a New and Improved Way of doing things, but if you violate the consistency and expected behavior of an operation, you&#8217;ll likely infuriate your end users no matter how great the new behavior may be.
