_jimmybogard/2008-07-12-going-lean-in-visual-studio.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 204
title: Going lean in Visual Studio
date: 2008-07-12T18:43:32+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2008/07/12/going-lean-in-visual-studio.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "264715823"
categories:
  - Tools
---
Left unchecked, Visual Studio tends to get very cluttered:

![](http://grabbagoftimg.s3.amazonaws.com/vs_cluttered.PNG)

I found I don&#8217;t use any of these icons.&nbsp; Copy, Cut, Paste, Undo, Redo?&nbsp; Those are all keyboard shortcuts.&nbsp; Comment and Uncomment?&nbsp; Ctrl+K+C, Ctrl+K+U.&nbsp; Save All?&nbsp; Ctrl+Shift+S.

No more, I&#8217;m going lean.&nbsp; None of these toolbars provided me value, taking up valuable screen real estate, so I got rid of them all:

![](http://grabbagoftimg.s3.amazonaws.com/vs_lean.PNG)&nbsp; 

That&#8217;s about 80 pixels I saved, and about 5 more lines of code are visible.&nbsp; Beyond that, I&#8217;m no longer distracted by a hundred little icons, each hoping they&#8217;ll be clicked juuuuust once to prove their worth.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_jimmybogard/2008-07-12-going-lean-in-visual-studio.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 204
title: Going lean in Visual Studio
date: 2008-07-12T18:43:32+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2008/07/12/going-lean-in-visual-studio.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "264715823"
categories:
  - Tools
redirect_from: "/blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2008/07/12/going-lean-in-visual-studio.aspx/"
---
Left unchecked, Visual Studio tends to get very cluttered:

![](http://grabbagoftimg.s3.amazonaws.com/vs_cluttered.PNG)

I found I don&#8217;t use any of these icons.&nbsp; Copy, Cut, Paste, Undo, Redo?&nbsp; Those are all keyboard shortcuts.&nbsp; Comment and Uncomment?&nbsp; Ctrl+K+C, Ctrl+K+U.&nbsp; Save All?&nbsp; Ctrl+Shift+S.

No more, I&#8217;m going lean.&nbsp; None of these toolbars provided me value, taking up valuable screen real estate, so I got rid of them all:

![](http://grabbagoftimg.s3.amazonaws.com/vs_lean.PNG)&nbsp; 

That&#8217;s about 80 pixels I saved, and about 5 more lines of code are visible.&nbsp; Beyond that, I&#8217;m no longer distracted by a hundred little icons, each hoping they&#8217;ll be clicked juuuuust once to prove their worth.
