_jimmybogard/2008-09-22-ten-tips-to-maximize-the-return-on-your-tdd-investment.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 232
title: Ten tips to maximize the return on your TDD investment
date: 2008-09-22T02:00:29+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2008/09/21/ten-tips-to-maximize-the-return-on-your-tdd-investment.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "264715934"
categories:
  - TDD
---
Paul Cowen presented an interesting personal observation of using TDD on the ALT.NET mailing list, under the title &#8220;[TDD + effort != return](http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/altdotnet/message/15301)&#8220;.&nbsp; The implication being that doing TDD requires extra work during development, extra work in training, extra work in hiring qualified people, even extra coding.&nbsp; TDD is an investment in your team, your product and your craft.&nbsp; But there are a few things you can do to get the most out of your TDD experience.&nbsp; Here are ten tips to maximize your TDD investment:

  1. **Invest in a professional refactoring tool.**&nbsp; ReSharper is my current favorite, though I&#8217;ve been fond of Refactor! Pro in the past.&nbsp; Visual Studio, out of the box, has some fairly paltry (and slow) refactoring support.&nbsp; A professional refactoring tool will pay for itself (depending on your rates/salary) very quickly.&nbsp; A good craftsman needs sharp tools to build quality products.
  2. **Invest in your design skills**.&nbsp; Go out and buy design books, read them, share them with your team.&nbsp; Robert C. Martin&#8217;s [Agile Principles, Patterns and Practices](http://www.amazon.com/Principles-Patterns-Practices-Robert-Martin/dp/0131857258/) is a great start.&nbsp; I haven&#8217;t read it, but [Head First Design Patterns](http://www.amazon.com/Head-First-Design-Patterns/dp/0596007124/) gets rave reviews.&nbsp; [The Pragmatic Programmer](http://www.amazon.com/Pragmatic-Programmer-Journeyman-Master/dp/020161622X/) and [Domain-Driven Design](http://www.amazon.com/Domain-Driven-Design-Tackling-Complexity-Software/dp/0321125215/) are two more must-reads.&nbsp; TDD is meant to supplement and guide good design, not to be a magical spout from which good designs spew.&nbsp; You have to know where you want to go for the destination to make sense.
  3. **Hire passion and talent, not acronyms**.&nbsp; If you want to have a good team that designs good software, they have to be passionate about the craft, and talent to achieve success.&nbsp; An alphabet soup of tools in a resume is not nearly as important as the drive to learn.&nbsp; Someone with passion, talent and an open mind can be taught TDD and design.&nbsp; Someone in love with stored procedures because they like SQL cannot.
  4. **Invest in your team&#8217;s success**.&nbsp; Conduct book clubs, hold brown bag sessions, sponsor training, encourage learning.&nbsp; A team member doing TDD simply because the tech lead told them to isn&#8217;t going to have much passion for it.&nbsp; A team regularly conducting introspective analysis and searching for ways to improve will see the full benefits of TDD beyond the unit tests that result.
  5. **Consider enlisting a coach**.&nbsp; Tiger Woods has a swing coach.&nbsp; If the best golfer in the world thinks it&#8217;s appropriate to hire someone to help with his swing, why would it not be appropriate to hire an experienced guide to ease the transition into TDD?&nbsp; A coach is a person who&#8217;s already made the mistakes and learned from them, and can effectively pass on this knowledge to others.&nbsp; While it might take months of failures before TDD starts to make sense and your team realizes the full benefits, a coach can set your team on the right path to begin with, as well as answer questions that might have led you down blind alleys and wrong turns.
  6. **Get everyone on board**.&nbsp; Quality needs to be important to your team, as should be good design.&nbsp; Accepting less is a team decision, but that decision needs to keep in mind the cost of technical debt.&nbsp; One person can subvert an entire team&#8217;s intention to start TDD, and it&#8217;s up to the team leader to ensure that everyone moves together.&nbsp; If a team member refuses to cooperate, then it may be time to escalate the issue to HR.&nbsp; A team&#8217;s success is more important than one team member&#8217;s ego.
  7. **Invest in your refactoring skills**.&nbsp; Find any and all refactoring books, and devour them.&nbsp; From Fowler&#8217;s [Refactoring](http://www.amazon.com/Refactoring-Improving-Existing-Addison-Wesley-Technology/dp/0201485672) to Kerievsky&#8217;s [Refactoring to Patterns](http://www.amazon.com/Refactoring-Patterns-Addison-Wesley-Signature-Kerievsky/dp/0321213351) to Meszaros&#8217; [xUnit Test Patterns](http://www.amazon.com/xUnit-Test-Patterns-Refactoring-Addison-Wesley/dp/0131495054), you&#8217;ll need to understand how, when and why to change your code.&nbsp; Refactoring is essential to good design, as you never design right the first time.&nbsp; These books describe code smells and how to get from design A to design B, safely.
  8. **Always do the simplest thing that could possibly work**.&nbsp; Because you&#8217;ve invested in your design and refactoring skills, you don&#8217;t have to create the strategy or template method pattern every place you possibly could.&nbsp; It becomes easy to move towards and away from patterns with Kerievsky&#8217;s book.&nbsp; With refactoring techniques, applying design patterns before they&#8217;re actually needed becomes rather pointless and wasteful.
  9. **Avoid the cargo cult.**&nbsp; If test doubles seem foreign and pointless, do the research on the why.&nbsp; Perform a little analysis before jumping in or dismissing a tool or technique.&nbsp; There are gabs of resources on TDD, design and refactoring in books, blogs, articles and presentations.&nbsp; Applying a new technique like TDD without understanding the &#8220;why&#8221; can be a short path to a bad experience.
 10. **Expect to fall down**.&nbsp; TDD is a skill, and like any other skill, requires patience, dedication, study and practice to master.&nbsp; Expect to fall down, flat on your face as you learn.&nbsp; Everything isn&#8217;t wine and roses once you start TDD, and you&#8217;ll need to have convinced yourself that the benefits will be worth the initial pain.&nbsp; A coach will ease the initial pain, but TDD and design in general is a learning process.

This list isn&#8217;t exhaustive naturally, but I wish I had this list when I started doing TDD almost three years ago.&nbsp; TDD is hard, as is good design.&nbsp; The first time I threw a baseball, I was pretty bad at it.&nbsp; With practice, I improved.&nbsp; With guided and informed practice, I improved much more.

Skills aren&#8217;t static either, you&#8217;re either getting better or you&#8217;re getting worse.&nbsp; These tips have helped me improve gradually and incrementally over time, but only because I wanted to.&nbsp; I&#8217;m still not satisfied with where my skills are, and I never will be.&nbsp; There are always inefficiencies to address, areas to improve, and new techniques to learn and employ.

TDD is a technique I believe whole-heartedly in, not because it&#8217;s vogue or the echo chamber is loud, but because I&#8217;ve seen the improvements in maintainability and design as a result.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_jimmybogard/2008-09-22-ten-tips-to-maximize-the-return-on-your-tdd-investment.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 232
title: Ten tips to maximize the return on your TDD investment
date: 2008-09-22T02:00:29+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2008/09/21/ten-tips-to-maximize-the-return-on-your-tdd-investment.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "264715934"
categories:
  - TDD
redirect_from: "/blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2008/09/21/ten-tips-to-maximize-the-return-on-your-tdd-investment.aspx/"
---
Paul Cowen presented an interesting personal observation of using TDD on the ALT.NET mailing list, under the title &#8220;[TDD + effort != return](http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/altdotnet/message/15301)&#8220;.&nbsp; The implication being that doing TDD requires extra work during development, extra work in training, extra work in hiring qualified people, even extra coding.&nbsp; TDD is an investment in your team, your product and your craft.&nbsp; But there are a few things you can do to get the most out of your TDD experience.&nbsp; Here are ten tips to maximize your TDD investment:

  1. **Invest in a professional refactoring tool.**&nbsp; ReSharper is my current favorite, though I&#8217;ve been fond of Refactor! Pro in the past.&nbsp; Visual Studio, out of the box, has some fairly paltry (and slow) refactoring support.&nbsp; A professional refactoring tool will pay for itself (depending on your rates/salary) very quickly.&nbsp; A good craftsman needs sharp tools to build quality products.
  2. **Invest in your design skills**.&nbsp; Go out and buy design books, read them, share them with your team.&nbsp; Robert C. Martin&#8217;s [Agile Principles, Patterns and Practices](http://www.amazon.com/Principles-Patterns-Practices-Robert-Martin/dp/0131857258/) is a great start.&nbsp; I haven&#8217;t read it, but [Head First Design Patterns](http://www.amazon.com/Head-First-Design-Patterns/dp/0596007124/) gets rave reviews.&nbsp; [The Pragmatic Programmer](http://www.amazon.com/Pragmatic-Programmer-Journeyman-Master/dp/020161622X/) and [Domain-Driven Design](http://www.amazon.com/Domain-Driven-Design-Tackling-Complexity-Software/dp/0321125215/) are two more must-reads.&nbsp; TDD is meant to supplement and guide good design, not to be a magical spout from which good designs spew.&nbsp; You have to know where you want to go for the destination to make sense.
  3. **Hire passion and talent, not acronyms**.&nbsp; If you want to have a good team that designs good software, they have to be passionate about the craft, and talent to achieve success.&nbsp; An alphabet soup of tools in a resume is not nearly as important as the drive to learn.&nbsp; Someone with passion, talent and an open mind can be taught TDD and design.&nbsp; Someone in love with stored procedures because they like SQL cannot.
  4. **Invest in your team&#8217;s success**.&nbsp; Conduct book clubs, hold brown bag sessions, sponsor training, encourage learning.&nbsp; A team member doing TDD simply because the tech lead told them to isn&#8217;t going to have much passion for it.&nbsp; A team regularly conducting introspective analysis and searching for ways to improve will see the full benefits of TDD beyond the unit tests that result.
  5. **Consider enlisting a coach**.&nbsp; Tiger Woods has a swing coach.&nbsp; If the best golfer in the world thinks it&#8217;s appropriate to hire someone to help with his swing, why would it not be appropriate to hire an experienced guide to ease the transition into TDD?&nbsp; A coach is a person who&#8217;s already made the mistakes and learned from them, and can effectively pass on this knowledge to others.&nbsp; While it might take months of failures before TDD starts to make sense and your team realizes the full benefits, a coach can set your team on the right path to begin with, as well as answer questions that might have led you down blind alleys and wrong turns.
  6. **Get everyone on board**.&nbsp; Quality needs to be important to your team, as should be good design.&nbsp; Accepting less is a team decision, but that decision needs to keep in mind the cost of technical debt.&nbsp; One person can subvert an entire team&#8217;s intention to start TDD, and it&#8217;s up to the team leader to ensure that everyone moves together.&nbsp; If a team member refuses to cooperate, then it may be time to escalate the issue to HR.&nbsp; A team&#8217;s success is more important than one team member&#8217;s ego.
  7. **Invest in your refactoring skills**.&nbsp; Find any and all refactoring books, and devour them.&nbsp; From Fowler&#8217;s [Refactoring](http://www.amazon.com/Refactoring-Improving-Existing-Addison-Wesley-Technology/dp/0201485672) to Kerievsky&#8217;s [Refactoring to Patterns](http://www.amazon.com/Refactoring-Patterns-Addison-Wesley-Signature-Kerievsky/dp/0321213351) to Meszaros&#8217; [xUnit Test Patterns](http://www.amazon.com/xUnit-Test-Patterns-Refactoring-Addison-Wesley/dp/0131495054), you&#8217;ll need to understand how, when and why to change your code.&nbsp; Refactoring is essential to good design, as you never design right the first time.&nbsp; These books describe code smells and how to get from design A to design B, safely.
  8. **Always do the simplest thing that could possibly work**.&nbsp; Because you&#8217;ve invested in your design and refactoring skills, you don&#8217;t have to create the strategy or template method pattern every place you possibly could.&nbsp; It becomes easy to move towards and away from patterns with Kerievsky&#8217;s book.&nbsp; With refactoring techniques, applying design patterns before they&#8217;re actually needed becomes rather pointless and wasteful.
  9. **Avoid the cargo cult.**&nbsp; If test doubles seem foreign and pointless, do the research on the why.&nbsp; Perform a little analysis before jumping in or dismissing a tool or technique.&nbsp; There are gabs of resources on TDD, design and refactoring in books, blogs, articles and presentations.&nbsp; Applying a new technique like TDD without understanding the &#8220;why&#8221; can be a short path to a bad experience.
 10. **Expect to fall down**.&nbsp; TDD is a skill, and like any other skill, requires patience, dedication, study and practice to master.&nbsp; Expect to fall down, flat on your face as you learn.&nbsp; Everything isn&#8217;t wine and roses once you start TDD, and you&#8217;ll need to have convinced yourself that the benefits will be worth the initial pain.&nbsp; A coach will ease the initial pain, but TDD and design in general is a learning process.

This list isn&#8217;t exhaustive naturally, but I wish I had this list when I started doing TDD almost three years ago.&nbsp; TDD is hard, as is good design.&nbsp; The first time I threw a baseball, I was pretty bad at it.&nbsp; With practice, I improved.&nbsp; With guided and informed practice, I improved much more.

Skills aren&#8217;t static either, you&#8217;re either getting better or you&#8217;re getting worse.&nbsp; These tips have helped me improve gradually and incrementally over time, but only because I wanted to.&nbsp; I&#8217;m still not satisfied with where my skills are, and I never will be.&nbsp; There are always inefficiencies to address, areas to improve, and new techniques to learn and employ.

TDD is a technique I believe whole-heartedly in, not because it&#8217;s vogue or the echo chamber is loud, but because I&#8217;ve seen the improvements in maintainability and design as a result.
