_jimmybogard/2008-02-04-stuck-in-proprietary-land.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 137
title: Stuck in proprietary-land
date: 2008-02-04T13:43:43+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2008/02/04/stuck-in-proprietary-land.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "264715528"
categories:
  - Misc
---
Many years ago, I made the fateful decision to standardize my home music collection on [WMA](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Media_Audio).&nbsp; The bundled software in Windows XP, [Windows Media Player](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_media_player), ripped my CDs to the WMA format, for free.

At the time, MP3 ripping utilities cost money, or came with a boatload of spyware or malware attached.&nbsp; Windows Media Player also had a nice service where it automatically found media info from a central database and tagged your music files accordingly.&nbsp; This was nice as it can be a huge pain to manually edit each MP3 file&#8217;s ID3 information.

Looking back, I chose wrong.&nbsp; Why am I wrong?&nbsp; The number one portable music player on the planet, the [iPod](http://www.apple.com/ipodclassic/), doesn&#8217;t play WMA files.&nbsp; When I first started creating my music library back in 2001, the iPod wasn&#8217;t supported on Windows.

To date, WMA players have been pretty lame.&nbsp; I haven&#8217;t seen one yet that approaches the usability of an iPod, and buying WMA files from official channels has been a lesson in bad DRM policies.

So I&#8217;m now stuck converting my WMA files to some other format, which I&#8217;m still trying to decide what to go with.&nbsp; Although MP3 is a licensed technology, it&#8217;s so ubiquitous it seems like a good bet.

I absolutely refuse to purchase music with DRM, as recent debacles (Google Video and PlaysForSure) have shown DRM is a losing proposition, for both content providers and content purchasers.

I&#8217;ll be very, very careful in the future when deciding how to persist media I care about.&nbsp; If a music format can disappear at the whim of its creator, I don&#8217;t want to be stuck with useless bits and bytes.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_jimmybogard/2008-02-04-stuck-in-proprietary-land.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 137
title: Stuck in proprietary-land
date: 2008-02-04T13:43:43+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2008/02/04/stuck-in-proprietary-land.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "264715528"
categories:
  - Misc
redirect_from: "/blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2008/02/04/stuck-in-proprietary-land.aspx/"
---
Many years ago, I made the fateful decision to standardize my home music collection on [WMA](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Media_Audio).&nbsp; The bundled software in Windows XP, [Windows Media Player](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_media_player), ripped my CDs to the WMA format, for free.

At the time, MP3 ripping utilities cost money, or came with a boatload of spyware or malware attached.&nbsp; Windows Media Player also had a nice service where it automatically found media info from a central database and tagged your music files accordingly.&nbsp; This was nice as it can be a huge pain to manually edit each MP3 file&#8217;s ID3 information.

Looking back, I chose wrong.&nbsp; Why am I wrong?&nbsp; The number one portable music player on the planet, the [iPod](http://www.apple.com/ipodclassic/), doesn&#8217;t play WMA files.&nbsp; When I first started creating my music library back in 2001, the iPod wasn&#8217;t supported on Windows.

To date, WMA players have been pretty lame.&nbsp; I haven&#8217;t seen one yet that approaches the usability of an iPod, and buying WMA files from official channels has been a lesson in bad DRM policies.

So I&#8217;m now stuck converting my WMA files to some other format, which I&#8217;m still trying to decide what to go with.&nbsp; Although MP3 is a licensed technology, it&#8217;s so ubiquitous it seems like a good bet.

I absolutely refuse to purchase music with DRM, as recent debacles (Google Video and PlaysForSure) have shown DRM is a losing proposition, for both content providers and content purchasers.

I&#8217;ll be very, very careful in the future when deciding how to persist media I care about.&nbsp; If a music format can disappear at the whim of its creator, I don&#8217;t want to be stuck with useless bits and bytes.
