_jimmybogard/2009-05-21-podcast-on-automapper-live.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 316
title: Podcast on AutoMapper live
date: 2009-05-21T12:32:42+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2009/05/21/podcast-on-automapper-live.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "264716176"
categories:
  - AutoMapper
---
A couple of weeks ago, [Craig](http://weblogs.asp.net/craigshoemaker/) at [Polymorphic Podcast](http://polymorphicpodcast.com/) was kind, and patient enough to listen to me ramble for about an hour or so on [AutoMapper](http://automapper.codeplex.com/).&#160; We talked about quite a few topics concerning object-to-object mapping and AutoMapper, including:

  * What is AutoMapper 
  * What brought about its creation 
  * Where is it best used 
  * Some examples of some of the major features 
      * Flattening 
      * Projection 
      * Configuration validation 
      * Nested mappings 
      * Custom value resolvers 
      * Custom value formatters 
      * Null substitution
  * How it works
  * Performance implications
  * What’s in store in future versions

Also, [Eric Polerecky](http://eric.polerecky.com/) recorded a [DimeCast on AutoMapper](http://www.dimecasts.net/Casts/CastDetails/111), showing use going from EF to WCF contracts, and is a nice, quick introduction and example on a real-world usage of automated object-to-object mapping.

As always, if you have any questions on the tool, or you couldn’t understand what I was saying between all of the “uh” and “um”, post something up on the [AutoMapper mailing list](http://groups.google.com/group/automapper-users).

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_jimmybogard/2009-05-21-podcast-on-automapper-live.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 316
title: Podcast on AutoMapper live
date: 2009-05-21T12:32:42+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2009/05/21/podcast-on-automapper-live.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "264716176"
categories:
  - AutoMapper
redirect_from: "/blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2009/05/21/podcast-on-automapper-live.aspx/"
---
A couple of weeks ago, [Craig](http://weblogs.asp.net/craigshoemaker/) at [Polymorphic Podcast](http://polymorphicpodcast.com/) was kind, and patient enough to listen to me ramble for about an hour or so on [AutoMapper](http://automapper.codeplex.com/).&#160; We talked about quite a few topics concerning object-to-object mapping and AutoMapper, including:

  * What is AutoMapper 
  * What brought about its creation 
  * Where is it best used 
  * Some examples of some of the major features 
      * Flattening 
      * Projection 
      * Configuration validation 
      * Nested mappings 
      * Custom value resolvers 
      * Custom value formatters 
      * Null substitution
  * How it works
  * Performance implications
  * What’s in store in future versions

Also, [Eric Polerecky](http://eric.polerecky.com/) recorded a [DimeCast on AutoMapper](http://www.dimecasts.net/Casts/CastDetails/111), showing use going from EF to WCF contracts, and is a nice, quick introduction and example on a real-world usage of automated object-to-object mapping.

As always, if you have any questions on the tool, or you couldn’t understand what I was saying between all of the “uh” and “um”, post something up on the [AutoMapper mailing list](http://groups.google.com/group/automapper-users).
