_jimmybogard/2009-02-11-on-symbology-and-materialism.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 280
title: On symbology and materialism
date: 2009-02-11T00:41:10+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2009/02/10/on-symbology-and-materialism.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "265770130"
categories:
  - Misc
---
In a great article, [Scott Bellware](http://blog.scottbellware.com/) talks about the detrimental nature of a [fixation of symbology on teaching](http://blog.scottbellware.com/2009/02/teaching-symbology-and-intellectual_01.html).&#160; This is especially true in software development, where the justification, shape and application of tools are not quite as clear as other craftsman-like jobs.&#160; You may be able to teach an apprentice carpenter what a screwdriver is or rotary saw, but those names are quite descriptive of the function, whereas software terms like “Inversion of Control” and the like require quite a bit more introduction.

Symbology, however, is of utmost importance amongst peers.&#160; It’s the only way to communicate.&#160; If one carpenter called a screwdriver a “twistinator” and another called it a “binditanoid”, how could they hold higher-level conversations on the application and strategies for using a screwdriver?

Fields of work gravitate towards a common language simply because it’s easier to share and disseminate ideas.&#160; Relatively young fields are hampered by a lack of common language, as I saw in a recent foray into software volume licensing.&#160; Because **every single vendor** had a different name for a single concept, we as developers had to keep track of a bevy of translations, between ourselves and talking about each vendor’s programs.

Few things are more destructive towards communication than translations and context switching.&#160; When definitions and names are shared amongst peers, they can move past definitions to what to do with the concepts behind the names.

Teachers must be wary of swamping a student with acronyms and definitions, but it’s a failure of teaching, not of the symbology.&#160; Symbology is a measure of the maturity of a field, so let’s not abandon the names in favor of teaching the concepts.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_jimmybogard/2009-02-11-on-symbology-and-materialism.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 280
title: On symbology and materialism
date: 2009-02-11T00:41:10+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2009/02/10/on-symbology-and-materialism.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "265770130"
categories:
  - Misc
redirect_from: "/blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2009/02/10/on-symbology-and-materialism.aspx/"
---
In a great article, [Scott Bellware](http://blog.scottbellware.com/) talks about the detrimental nature of a [fixation of symbology on teaching](http://blog.scottbellware.com/2009/02/teaching-symbology-and-intellectual_01.html).&#160; This is especially true in software development, where the justification, shape and application of tools are not quite as clear as other craftsman-like jobs.&#160; You may be able to teach an apprentice carpenter what a screwdriver is or rotary saw, but those names are quite descriptive of the function, whereas software terms like “Inversion of Control” and the like require quite a bit more introduction.

Symbology, however, is of utmost importance amongst peers.&#160; It’s the only way to communicate.&#160; If one carpenter called a screwdriver a “twistinator” and another called it a “binditanoid”, how could they hold higher-level conversations on the application and strategies for using a screwdriver?

Fields of work gravitate towards a common language simply because it’s easier to share and disseminate ideas.&#160; Relatively young fields are hampered by a lack of common language, as I saw in a recent foray into software volume licensing.&#160; Because **every single vendor** had a different name for a single concept, we as developers had to keep track of a bevy of translations, between ourselves and talking about each vendor’s programs.

Few things are more destructive towards communication than translations and context switching.&#160; When definitions and names are shared amongst peers, they can move past definitions to what to do with the concepts behind the names.

Teachers must be wary of swamping a student with acronyms and definitions, but it’s a failure of teaching, not of the symbology.&#160; Symbology is a measure of the maturity of a field, so let’s not abandon the names in favor of teaching the concepts.
