_jimmybogard/2009-10-21-c4mvc-meeting-on-ui-testing.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 361
title: C4MVC meeting on UI testing
date: 2009-10-21T13:38:41+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2009/10/21/c4mvc-meeting-on-ui-testing.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "264716332"
categories:
  - ASPNETMVC
---
Today I’m showing giving a talk on UI testing MVC applications for the [Community for MVC.Net folks](http://www.c4mvc.net/).&#160; Those that went to my presentations in Arkansas and Houston have seen this talk already, so they’re off the hook on this one.&#160; I’ll be covering ways to create UI tests that don’t break when a butterfly flaps its wings in Japan, and how we can design our MVC applications for UI testability.

The presentation is done via LiveMeeting, (<http://Meeting.c4mvc.net>), so make sure you’ve hit that link before the start time, which is 12:00 PM CST today.&#160; For more details, check out the C4MVC site:

[http://www.c4mvc.net/](http://www.c4mvc.net/ "http://www.c4mvc.net/")

In the WebForms world, it was quite difficult to create maintainable UI tests.&#160; But in ASP.NET MVC, we have far more control over the HTML generated, allowing us to design our UI for testability.&#160; It should be a good discussion, I’m looking forward to seeing everyone there!

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_jimmybogard/2009-10-21-c4mvc-meeting-on-ui-testing.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 361
title: C4MVC meeting on UI testing
date: 2009-10-21T13:38:41+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2009/10/21/c4mvc-meeting-on-ui-testing.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "264716332"
categories:
  - ASPNETMVC
redirect_from: "/blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2009/10/21/c4mvc-meeting-on-ui-testing.aspx/"
---
Today I’m showing giving a talk on UI testing MVC applications for the [Community for MVC.Net folks](http://www.c4mvc.net/).&#160; Those that went to my presentations in Arkansas and Houston have seen this talk already, so they’re off the hook on this one.&#160; I’ll be covering ways to create UI tests that don’t break when a butterfly flaps its wings in Japan, and how we can design our MVC applications for UI testability.

The presentation is done via LiveMeeting, (<http://Meeting.c4mvc.net>), so make sure you’ve hit that link before the start time, which is 12:00 PM CST today.&#160; For more details, check out the C4MVC site:

[http://www.c4mvc.net/](http://www.c4mvc.net/ "http://www.c4mvc.net/")

In the WebForms world, it was quite difficult to create maintainable UI tests.&#160; But in ASP.NET MVC, we have far more control over the HTML generated, allowing us to design our UI for testability.&#160; It should be a good discussion, I’m looking forward to seeing everyone there!
