_jimmybogard/2009-03-09-why-are-we-so-cheap-with-software.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 291
title: Why are we so cheap with software?
date: 2009-03-09T01:18:42+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2009/03/08/why-are-we-so-cheap-with-software.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "265282126"
categories:
  - Rant
---
On twitter today, Ayende [asked the question](http://twitter.com/ayende/status/1297780722):

> should I offer a personal edition for NH Prof? If so, at what cost?

If you&#8217;re not familiar with [NHibernate Profiler](http://nhprof.com/), it&#8217;s Ayende&#8217;s for-profit, non-OSS NHibernate profiling tool.&nbsp; Honestly, it looks like it could save Ayende probably 10 support emails a day, given the level of detail the profiler gives (and prescriptive guidance).

Right now, a beta license comes in at $195, full version at $280.&nbsp; The interesting part in all this is Ayende&#8217;s public foray into commercial product development, where he asks questions like:

  * Should this be open source?
  * Should I use a licensing server?
  * How much should I charge?

For some strange reason, cost of software seems to be an issue with developers.&nbsp; I talked to a few designer buddies, and they&#8217;ve spent _thousands_ of dollars on software licenses, per seat.&nbsp; An MSDN license isn&#8217;t cheap, and many companies go after partner status just for the licensing benefits.&nbsp; But why?&nbsp; I&#8217;ve worked at companies where I had to justify a purchase of ReSharper, but they were more than happy to send me out on a week-long pointless WCF training, costing thousands of dollars.

When I was in the semiconductor industry, software licenses dwarfed individual _salaries_.&nbsp; One tool I used for laying out gates and such was well into the hundreds of thousands of dollars per seat.

Some of the concerns people forwarded Ayende included the TestDriven.NET example &#8211; if you offer a personal edition of free, 95% (unscientific) of your downloads will be from developers using at work, but angling to get a free tool.

So while developers are cheap, so too are our archaic purchasing departments, who have ridiculous training budgets but balk at buying a tool that offers an immediate increase in productivity.

I spend hundreds and hundreds each year on technical books, but I pause before buying a personal VisualSVN license.&nbsp; I have no idea why, but I also dropped a couple hunny on all sorts of FPS games I play once and drop, or never even finish (looking at you, Doom 3).

So what&#8217;s going on, are we conditioned to get software for free?&nbsp; Are companies afraid of purchasing software, for fear of needing to buy it for _everyone_?

I remember a company that didn&#8217;t have the cajones to purchase a real merge tool, even though a senior lead was wasting his time merging with TFS&#8217;s inadequate merge tool.&nbsp; It would have paid for itself within a day, given rates and salaries.

Why so cheap?

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_jimmybogard/2009-03-09-why-are-we-so-cheap-with-software.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 291
title: Why are we so cheap with software?
date: 2009-03-09T01:18:42+00:00
author: Jimmy Bogard
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2009/03/08/why-are-we-so-cheap-with-software.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "265282126"
categories:
  - Rant
redirect_from: "/blogs/jimmy_bogard/archive/2009/03/08/why-are-we-so-cheap-with-software.aspx/"
---
On twitter today, Ayende [asked the question](http://twitter.com/ayende/status/1297780722):

> should I offer a personal edition for NH Prof? If so, at what cost?

If you&#8217;re not familiar with [NHibernate Profiler](http://nhprof.com/), it&#8217;s Ayende&#8217;s for-profit, non-OSS NHibernate profiling tool.&nbsp; Honestly, it looks like it could save Ayende probably 10 support emails a day, given the level of detail the profiler gives (and prescriptive guidance).

Right now, a beta license comes in at $195, full version at $280.&nbsp; The interesting part in all this is Ayende&#8217;s public foray into commercial product development, where he asks questions like:

  * Should this be open source?
  * Should I use a licensing server?
  * How much should I charge?

For some strange reason, cost of software seems to be an issue with developers.&nbsp; I talked to a few designer buddies, and they&#8217;ve spent _thousands_ of dollars on software licenses, per seat.&nbsp; An MSDN license isn&#8217;t cheap, and many companies go after partner status just for the licensing benefits.&nbsp; But why?&nbsp; I&#8217;ve worked at companies where I had to justify a purchase of ReSharper, but they were more than happy to send me out on a week-long pointless WCF training, costing thousands of dollars.

When I was in the semiconductor industry, software licenses dwarfed individual _salaries_.&nbsp; One tool I used for laying out gates and such was well into the hundreds of thousands of dollars per seat.

Some of the concerns people forwarded Ayende included the TestDriven.NET example &#8211; if you offer a personal edition of free, 95% (unscientific) of your downloads will be from developers using at work, but angling to get a free tool.

So while developers are cheap, so too are our archaic purchasing departments, who have ridiculous training budgets but balk at buying a tool that offers an immediate increase in productivity.

I spend hundreds and hundreds each year on technical books, but I pause before buying a personal VisualSVN license.&nbsp; I have no idea why, but I also dropped a couple hunny on all sorts of FPS games I play once and drop, or never even finish (looking at you, Doom 3).

So what&#8217;s going on, are we conditioned to get software for free?&nbsp; Are companies afraid of purchasing software, for fear of needing to buy it for _everyone_?

I remember a company that didn&#8217;t have the cajones to purchase a real merge tool, even though a senior lead was wasting his time merging with TFS&#8217;s inadequate merge tool.&nbsp; It would have paid for itself within a day, given rates and salaries.

Why so cheap?
