_joeybeninghove/2007-09-28-my-first-interview-that-i-have-given.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 38
title: My First Interview (that I have given)
date: 2007-09-28T19:43:00+00:00
author: Joey Beninghove
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/joeydotnet/archive/2007/09/28/my-first-interview-that-i-have-given.aspx
categories:
  - 'C#'
  - Patterns
  - Personal
  - TDD
---
Today I was asked to give&nbsp;a technical interview to a candidate which is kind
  
of a new thing for me.&nbsp; He had already been screened on the &#8220;what&#8217;s an abstract
  
class and how do you do <insert something here /> in ASP.NET&#8221; kind of
  
questions.&nbsp; So I got to have fun and go through some more interesting
  
topics.

Some of the topics I was bringing up, I see as [fundamental](http://codebetter.com/blogs/jeremy.miller/archive/2007/09/28/just-some-little-fundamental-things-to-help-you-codebetter.aspx)
  
to being a&nbsp;good developer.&nbsp; I didn&#8217;t realize it until afterwards, but not one
  
question I asked him was technology-specific.&nbsp; Which is usually the kinds of
  
topics&nbsp;I prefer to focus my own time on.

I started out with some [OOD
  
principles](http://butunclebob.com/ArticleS.UncleBob.PrinciplesOfOod) like SRP, OCP, LSP, DIP, etc.&nbsp; Unfortunately he had never heard
  
of any of them.&nbsp; So I went into explaining each one for him because, if nothing
  
else, I figured at least I could test my own self in my explanations and maybe
  
he could even learn a little something too.&nbsp; 

Then I started talking about just some basic unit testing, which he didn&#8217;t
  
currently practice.&nbsp; So I really didn&#8217;t even bother to get into TDD/Mock
  
Objects.&nbsp; It was probably a mistake for me to try and go over IoC/DI and xDD
  
practices after that, but I wanted to give him the benefit of the doubt.&nbsp; No
  
dice.&nbsp; 

So, I guess this is my first time experiencing for myself the challenge that
  
many of my fellow bloggers talk about when they say how hard it can be to find
  
[great hackers](http://www.paulgraham.com/gh.html).&nbsp; 

My final question (which probably should&#8217;ve been my first) was &#8220;So, who&#8217;s
  
your favorite bloggers?&#8221;.&nbsp; 😀

Seriously though, whether or not a developer is involved with the community I
  
think says a lot about them.&nbsp; There is certainly nothing wrong with not being
  
involved in the developer community, but I think it can be a good distinguisher.
  
&nbsp;(I think that&#8217;s a word&#8230;&nbsp; 😛&nbsp;)

Speaking of jobs, if you are looking for some short-term work, Joe is looking
  
for a [few
  
good developers](http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/joe_ocampo/archive/2007/09/28/i-m-looking-for-a-few-good-developers-contract.aspx).

&nbsp;

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_joeybeninghove/2007-09-28-my-first-interview-that-i-have-given.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 38
title: My First Interview (that I have given)
date: 2007-09-28T19:43:00+00:00
author: Joey Beninghove
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/joeydotnet/archive/2007/09/28/my-first-interview-that-i-have-given.aspx
categories:
  - 'C#'
  - Patterns
  - Personal
  - TDD
redirect_from: "/blogs/joeydotnet/archive/2007/09/28/my-first-interview-that-i-have-given.aspx/"
---
Today I was asked to give&nbsp;a technical interview to a candidate which is kind
  
of a new thing for me.&nbsp; He had already been screened on the &#8220;what&#8217;s an abstract
  
class and how do you do <insert something here /> in ASP.NET&#8221; kind of
  
questions.&nbsp; So I got to have fun and go through some more interesting
  
topics.

Some of the topics I was bringing up, I see as [fundamental](http://codebetter.com/blogs/jeremy.miller/archive/2007/09/28/just-some-little-fundamental-things-to-help-you-codebetter.aspx)
  
to being a&nbsp;good developer.&nbsp; I didn&#8217;t realize it until afterwards, but not one
  
question I asked him was technology-specific.&nbsp; Which is usually the kinds of
  
topics&nbsp;I prefer to focus my own time on.

I started out with some [OOD
  
principles](http://butunclebob.com/ArticleS.UncleBob.PrinciplesOfOod) like SRP, OCP, LSP, DIP, etc.&nbsp; Unfortunately he had never heard
  
of any of them.&nbsp; So I went into explaining each one for him because, if nothing
  
else, I figured at least I could test my own self in my explanations and maybe
  
he could even learn a little something too.&nbsp; 

Then I started talking about just some basic unit testing, which he didn&#8217;t
  
currently practice.&nbsp; So I really didn&#8217;t even bother to get into TDD/Mock
  
Objects.&nbsp; It was probably a mistake for me to try and go over IoC/DI and xDD
  
practices after that, but I wanted to give him the benefit of the doubt.&nbsp; No
  
dice.&nbsp; 

So, I guess this is my first time experiencing for myself the challenge that
  
many of my fellow bloggers talk about when they say how hard it can be to find
  
[great hackers](http://www.paulgraham.com/gh.html).&nbsp; 

My final question (which probably should&#8217;ve been my first) was &#8220;So, who&#8217;s
  
your favorite bloggers?&#8221;.&nbsp; 😀

Seriously though, whether or not a developer is involved with the community I
  
think says a lot about them.&nbsp; There is certainly nothing wrong with not being
  
involved in the developer community, but I think it can be a good distinguisher.
  
&nbsp;(I think that&#8217;s a word&#8230;&nbsp; 😛&nbsp;)

Speaking of jobs, if you are looking for some short-term work, Joe is looking
  
for a [few
  
good developers](http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/joe_ocampo/archive/2007/09/28/i-m-looking-for-a-few-good-developers-contract.aspx).

&nbsp;
