_jamesgregory/2009-03-27-my-name-s-james-gregory-and-i-m-new-here.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 4494
title: 'My name&#8217;s James Gregory and I&#8217;m new here'
date: 2009-03-27T19:33:00+00:00
author: James Gregory
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jagregory/archive/2009/03/27/my-name-s-james-gregory-and-i-m-new-here.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "273364395"
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
Hello everybody,

My name is James Gregory and I&#8217;m the latest convert to Pabloism!&nbsp;

I hail from the land of Kings and Queens, where dragons be and wenches are a-plenty. England that is, to the east in Yorkshire to be [more precise](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=Gilberdyke&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=47.751524,65.830078&ie=UTF8&ll=53.752325,-0.740887&spn=8.984636,16.45752&z=6). I&#8217;ve been a developer/programmer/monkey of the code commercially for about 6 years, but I&#8217;ve been doing it out-of-hours for much longer. I recently quit my job to focus on personal development and open-source contributions&#8230; look where that got me!

I made a vow several years ago that if I ever found that I&#8217;d stopped learning, I would quit the programming gig and never come back. I hope you guys will help me stick with this, if you ever find that I&#8217;m stagnating, please remind me of this vow.

I&#8217;m a pragmatist. I&#8217;ll use any language, any tool, any platform, whatever is needed to get the job done right. I&#8217;m not scared to learn, in-fact one of my most proud abilities is [being able to learn](http://blog.jagregory.com/2008/08/14/time-time-time/). I most frequently program in C# (although all my commerical jobs have always been as VB.Net developers!), I loves me some Ruby, and I&nbsp;abhor&nbsp;any developer who is afraid of the command-line.

For those who weren&#8217;t subscribed to [my blog](http://blog.jagregory.com) (that&#8217;s probably most of you) and reiterating [what Jason said](/blogs/jason_meridth/archive/2009/03/27/lostechies-welcomes-james-gregory.aspx), I&#8217;m the project lead of [Fluent NHibernate](http://fluentnhibernate.org), which is a strongly typed alternative to NHibernate&#8217;s XML mappings (and much more). I&#8217;m also the lead for [Docu](http://docu.jagregory.com), a simpler documentation generator for .Net projects. These will certainly make up a large part of my bloggings, but hopefully not the entirety.

I&#8217;m&nbsp;incredibly&nbsp;pleased to be a part of Los Techies, and I hope I don&#8217;t bring down the tone too much.

You can find me on Twitter as [jagregory](http://twitter.com/jagregory), skype as jagregory.com, gtalk and email at: james at jagregory dot com. Feel free to get in touch if you think there&#8217;s anything I can do for you.

That&#8217;s enough about me!

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_jamesgregory/2009-03-27-my-name-s-james-gregory-and-i-m-new-here.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 4494
title: 'My name&#8217;s James Gregory and I&#8217;m new here'
date: 2009-03-27T19:33:00+00:00
author: James Gregory
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jagregory/archive/2009/03/27/my-name-s-james-gregory-and-i-m-new-here.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "273364395"
categories:
  - Uncategorized
redirect_from: "/blogs/jagregory/archive/2009/03/27/my-name-s-james-gregory-and-i-m-new-here.aspx/"
---
Hello everybody,

My name is James Gregory and I&#8217;m the latest convert to Pabloism!&nbsp;

I hail from the land of Kings and Queens, where dragons be and wenches are a-plenty. England that is, to the east in Yorkshire to be [more precise](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=Gilberdyke&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=47.751524,65.830078&ie=UTF8&ll=53.752325,-0.740887&spn=8.984636,16.45752&z=6). I&#8217;ve been a developer/programmer/monkey of the code commercially for about 6 years, but I&#8217;ve been doing it out-of-hours for much longer. I recently quit my job to focus on personal development and open-source contributions&#8230; look where that got me!

I made a vow several years ago that if I ever found that I&#8217;d stopped learning, I would quit the programming gig and never come back. I hope you guys will help me stick with this, if you ever find that I&#8217;m stagnating, please remind me of this vow.

I&#8217;m a pragmatist. I&#8217;ll use any language, any tool, any platform, whatever is needed to get the job done right. I&#8217;m not scared to learn, in-fact one of my most proud abilities is [being able to learn](http://blog.jagregory.com/2008/08/14/time-time-time/). I most frequently program in C# (although all my commerical jobs have always been as VB.Net developers!), I loves me some Ruby, and I&nbsp;abhor&nbsp;any developer who is afraid of the command-line.

For those who weren&#8217;t subscribed to [my blog](http://blog.jagregory.com) (that&#8217;s probably most of you) and reiterating [what Jason said](/blogs/jason_meridth/archive/2009/03/27/lostechies-welcomes-james-gregory.aspx), I&#8217;m the project lead of [Fluent NHibernate](http://fluentnhibernate.org), which is a strongly typed alternative to NHibernate&#8217;s XML mappings (and much more). I&#8217;m also the lead for [Docu](http://docu.jagregory.com), a simpler documentation generator for .Net projects. These will certainly make up a large part of my bloggings, but hopefully not the entirety.

I&#8217;m&nbsp;incredibly&nbsp;pleased to be a part of Los Techies, and I hope I don&#8217;t bring down the tone too much.

You can find me on Twitter as [jagregory](http://twitter.com/jagregory), skype as jagregory.com, gtalk and email at: james at jagregory dot com. Feel free to get in touch if you think there&#8217;s anything I can do for you.

That&#8217;s enough about me!
