_jamesgregory/2009-07-20-git-s-and-command-line-fear.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 4497
title: Git and command-line fear
date: 2009-07-20T15:10:00+00:00
author: James Gregory
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jagregory/archive/2009/07/20/git-s-and-command-line-fear.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "273364721"
categories:
  - ALTdotNET
  - git
---
[Git](http://git-scm.org) has been gaining a lot of traction lately, and rightly so. I&#8217;ve used it for a couple of years now, for all my projects ([Fluent NHibernate](http://fluentnhibernate.org) and [Docu](http://docu.jagregory.com) being the prominent ones), but something that hasn&#8217;t changed is the tag-line of &#8220;but Windows support isn&#8217;t very good!&#8221;. What you quickly learn is that when people say that, they actually mean there isn&#8217;t a Visual Studio plug-in or some similar all-singing all-dancing GUI; this is a dire misrepresentation of Git, because it&#8217;s tooling on Windows is excellent if your definition of tooling includes the command-line.

It&#8217;s something ingrained in Windows developers, they hate the command-line. There&#8217;s a very good chance that if you encounter a Windows developer that does enjoy using the command-line it&#8217;s because they&#8217;ve also worked on another platform or in another environment that encourages command-line use (Rails is a good example). I&#8217;ve tried various ways of encouraging people to experiment, but very few work without being able to sit down and just show them something. It&#8217;s very much like R# adoption, nobody thinks it&#8217;ll speed them up until they see how fast someone else can be.

Back onto Git. If you don&#8217;t like what Git does, then that&#8217;s fine, but don&#8217;t label yourself as Alt.Net or a continuous improver if this sounds like you: &#8220;I define myself by choosing the best tool for each situation, but there&#8217;s no way you&#8217;ll get me using the command-line.&#8221; Way to go, oh open-minded one. Try it, you might like it.

The other techies have been posting some great [Git posts](http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/tags/git/default.aspx) which can help you get up to speed. I hope to contribute, with less bile, soon.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_jamesgregory/2009-07-20-git-s-and-command-line-fear.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 4497
title: Git and command-line fear
date: 2009-07-20T15:10:00+00:00
author: James Gregory
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/jagregory/archive/2009/07/20/git-s-and-command-line-fear.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "273364721"
categories:
  - ALTdotNET
  - git
redirect_from: "/blogs/jagregory/archive/2009/07/20/git-s-and-command-line-fear.aspx/"
---
[Git](http://git-scm.org) has been gaining a lot of traction lately, and rightly so. I&#8217;ve used it for a couple of years now, for all my projects ([Fluent NHibernate](http://fluentnhibernate.org) and [Docu](http://docu.jagregory.com) being the prominent ones), but something that hasn&#8217;t changed is the tag-line of &#8220;but Windows support isn&#8217;t very good!&#8221;. What you quickly learn is that when people say that, they actually mean there isn&#8217;t a Visual Studio plug-in or some similar all-singing all-dancing GUI; this is a dire misrepresentation of Git, because it&#8217;s tooling on Windows is excellent if your definition of tooling includes the command-line.

It&#8217;s something ingrained in Windows developers, they hate the command-line. There&#8217;s a very good chance that if you encounter a Windows developer that does enjoy using the command-line it&#8217;s because they&#8217;ve also worked on another platform or in another environment that encourages command-line use (Rails is a good example). I&#8217;ve tried various ways of encouraging people to experiment, but very few work without being able to sit down and just show them something. It&#8217;s very much like R# adoption, nobody thinks it&#8217;ll speed them up until they see how fast someone else can be.

Back onto Git. If you don&#8217;t like what Git does, then that&#8217;s fine, but don&#8217;t label yourself as Alt.Net or a continuous improver if this sounds like you: &#8220;I define myself by choosing the best tool for each situation, but there&#8217;s no way you&#8217;ll get me using the command-line.&#8221; Way to go, oh open-minded one. Try it, you might like it.

The other techies have been posting some great [Git posts](http://www.lostechies.com/blogs/tags/git/default.aspx) which can help you get up to speed. I hope to contribute, with less bile, soon.
