_seanchambers/2007-10-08-wednesday-is-the-day.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 3142
title: Wednesday is the Day
date: 2007-10-08T01:58:00+00:00
author: Sean Chambers
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/sean_chambers/archive/2007/10/07/wednesday-is-the-day.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "268123697"
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
The time has finally come. After 9 long months of waiting and a miserable fiancee, our son Aidan&nbsp;will be delivered this week on Wednesday (hopefully)


  


We are heading down to the hospital on Tuesday evening&nbsp;so that our Doctor can induce her labor on Wednesday morning. Hopefully she will have an easy child birth and not too much pain. This is our first child so we&#8217;re not really sure what to expect. I am very excited. My fiancee keeps joking that he&#8217;s going to pop out holding a keyboard and banging away churning out code =)&nbsp; if I could only be so lucky..heheh


  


After Wednesday I have the next week and half off to help out with the newborn and help my fiancee relax. It&#8217;s a very exciting time. The whole pregnancy I think she was always more excited than me but I can hardly sleep at night now =)


  


Anyways, I will be posting photos after we leave the hospital&#8230;unless they can hook it up with some wifi =)


  


Wish me luck!

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_seanchambers/2007-10-08-wednesday-is-the-day.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 3142
title: Wednesday is the Day
date: 2007-10-08T01:58:00+00:00
author: Sean Chambers
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/sean_chambers/archive/2007/10/07/wednesday-is-the-day.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "268123697"
categories:
  - Uncategorized
redirect_from: "/blogs/sean_chambers/archive/2007/10/07/wednesday-is-the-day.aspx/"
---
The time has finally come. After 9 long months of waiting and a miserable fiancee, our son Aidan&nbsp;will be delivered this week on Wednesday (hopefully)


  


We are heading down to the hospital on Tuesday evening&nbsp;so that our Doctor can induce her labor on Wednesday morning. Hopefully she will have an easy child birth and not too much pain. This is our first child so we&#8217;re not really sure what to expect. I am very excited. My fiancee keeps joking that he&#8217;s going to pop out holding a keyboard and banging away churning out code =)&nbsp; if I could only be so lucky..heheh


  


After Wednesday I have the next week and half off to help out with the newborn and help my fiancee relax. It&#8217;s a very exciting time. The whole pregnancy I think she was always more excited than me but I can hardly sleep at night now =)


  


Anyways, I will be posting photos after we leave the hospital&#8230;unless they can hook it up with some wifi =)


  


Wish me luck!
