_seanchambers/2009-10-20-31-days-of-refactoring-ebook.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 3228
title: 31 Days of Refactoring eBook
date: 2009-10-20T23:27:00+00:00
author: Sean Chambers
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/sean_chambers/archive/2009/10/20/31-days-of-refactoring-ebook.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262126452"
categories:
  - development
---
Back in August I did the [31 Days of Refactoring](/blogs/sean_chambers/archive/2009/07/31/31-days-of-refactoring.aspx) blog series. Fellow LosTechies as well as other community members urged me to convert the series into an eBook. I had intended to (really!), but [Simone Chiaretta](http://codeclimber.net.nz/) beat me to it and took it upon himself to create the series into an eBook perfectly formatted and threw in some nice styling.

On that note, and a HUGE thanks to Simone for doing this task, you can find the link to the eBook below. I&#8217;m sure I&#8217;ll format things or may have missed some spelling errors so if you find anything please let me know. Again, huge thanks to Simone for doing this in his spare time. The community thanks you very much as do I.

[Pablo&#8217;s 31 Days of Refactoring eBook](/media/p/27197/download.aspx)

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_seanchambers/2009-10-20-31-days-of-refactoring-ebook.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 3228
title: 31 Days of Refactoring eBook
date: 2009-10-20T23:27:00+00:00
author: Sean Chambers
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/sean_chambers/archive/2009/10/20/31-days-of-refactoring-ebook.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "262126452"
categories:
  - development
redirect_from: "/blogs/sean_chambers/archive/2009/10/20/31-days-of-refactoring-ebook.aspx/"
---
Back in August I did the [31 Days of Refactoring](/blogs/sean_chambers/archive/2009/07/31/31-days-of-refactoring.aspx) blog series. Fellow LosTechies as well as other community members urged me to convert the series into an eBook. I had intended to (really!), but [Simone Chiaretta](http://codeclimber.net.nz/) beat me to it and took it upon himself to create the series into an eBook perfectly formatted and threw in some nice styling.

On that note, and a HUGE thanks to Simone for doing this task, you can find the link to the eBook below. I&#8217;m sure I&#8217;ll format things or may have missed some spelling errors so if you find anything please let me know. Again, huge thanks to Simone for doing this in his spare time. The community thanks you very much as do I.

[Pablo&#8217;s 31 Days of Refactoring eBook](/media/p/27197/download.aspx)
