_gabrielschenker/2010-07-28-we-are-hiring.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 45
title: We are hiring!
date: 2010-07-28T08:51:00+00:00
author: Gabriel Schenker
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/gabrielschenker/archive/2010/07/28/we-are-hiring.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "263908943"
categories:
  - developer
  - hiring
  - job
---
We ([TOPAZ](http://www.topazti.com) Technologies Ltd.) are looking for a junior developer ideally having 1-2 years of experience. If you are eager to work in an agile environment together with a highly motivated team then do not hesitate to contact me. On the other hand if you are NOT a junior developer any more but have a friend that might be a candidate for us then please do not hesitate to forward this message to her or him.

## Our environment

We are developing software and providing services for the pharmaceutical industry as well as for universities and hospitals. We are developing on the **.NET** platform (currently 3.5 and migrating soon to 4.0) and are using **Silverlight 4** to implement our web client. We also implement clients for **Windows Mobile** (Pocket PC) and will soon provide an interface to the **iPhone**. On the backend we are using **Oracle** and **SQL Server** databases. **NHibernate** is used as our ORM tool. Our mappings and mapping conventions are defined by using **Fluent NHibernate**. To index our entities we use **Lucene.NET** and thus leverage its super fast and flexible full text search capabilities.

We have many products and the respective domain can be quite complex, thus we use **DDD** and **CQRS** as our architectural patterns**.**

As a SCM we use **Git** and for our builds **TeamCity,** in conjunction with **Rake**.****We track our user stories and defects in **Rally**. 

We are constantly learning by sharing our knowledge during our daily developer meetings.

## What we expect

You have some experience in at least a couple of the following areas (nobody knows everything so don&rsquo;t be scared 🙂 )

  * .NET 3.x or higher and C#
  * .NET compact framework
  * Silverlight
  * Test Driven Development (TDD) with NUnit, MbUnit, XUnit, etc.
  * S.O.L.I.D. principles
  * MVVM Pattern
  * IoC container like Windsor, StructureMap, Ninject or Unity
  * NHibernate and Fluent NHibernate
  * SQL Server and/or Oracle
  * Ruby, Rake
  * SCM like SVN, Git or Mercurial

&nbsp;

You have a curious mind and are eager to learn, learn, learn and grow. 

You are open minded and a team player.

You are willing to work hard and share our enthusiasm for development.

Please send your resume to gnschenker at gmail dot com.

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_gabrielschenker/2010-07-28-we-are-hiring.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 45
title: We are hiring!
date: 2010-07-28T08:51:00+00:00
author: Gabriel Schenker
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/gabrielschenker/archive/2010/07/28/we-are-hiring.aspx
dsq_thread_id:
  - "263908943"
categories:
  - developer
  - hiring
  - job
redirect_from: "/blogs/gabrielschenker/archive/2010/07/28/we-are-hiring.aspx/"
---
We ([TOPAZ](http://www.topazti.com) Technologies Ltd.) are looking for a junior developer ideally having 1-2 years of experience. If you are eager to work in an agile environment together with a highly motivated team then do not hesitate to contact me. On the other hand if you are NOT a junior developer any more but have a friend that might be a candidate for us then please do not hesitate to forward this message to her or him.

## Our environment

We are developing software and providing services for the pharmaceutical industry as well as for universities and hospitals. We are developing on the **.NET** platform (currently 3.5 and migrating soon to 4.0) and are using **Silverlight 4** to implement our web client. We also implement clients for **Windows Mobile** (Pocket PC) and will soon provide an interface to the **iPhone**. On the backend we are using **Oracle** and **SQL Server** databases. **NHibernate** is used as our ORM tool. Our mappings and mapping conventions are defined by using **Fluent NHibernate**. To index our entities we use **Lucene.NET** and thus leverage its super fast and flexible full text search capabilities.

We have many products and the respective domain can be quite complex, thus we use **DDD** and **CQRS** as our architectural patterns**.**

As a SCM we use **Git** and for our builds **TeamCity,** in conjunction with **Rake**.****We track our user stories and defects in **Rally**. 

We are constantly learning by sharing our knowledge during our daily developer meetings.

## What we expect

You have some experience in at least a couple of the following areas (nobody knows everything so don&rsquo;t be scared 🙂 )

  * .NET 3.x or higher and C#
  * .NET compact framework
  * Silverlight
  * Test Driven Development (TDD) with NUnit, MbUnit, XUnit, etc.
  * S.O.L.I.D. principles
  * MVVM Pattern
  * IoC container like Windsor, StructureMap, Ninject or Unity
  * NHibernate and Fluent NHibernate
  * SQL Server and/or Oracle
  * Ruby, Rake
  * SCM like SVN, Git or Mercurial

&nbsp;

You have a curious mind and are eager to learn, learn, learn and grow. 

You are open minded and a team player.

You are willing to work hard and share our enthusiasm for development.

Please send your resume to gnschenker at gmail dot com.
