_colinjack/2009-01-22-p-amp-p-web-service-with-rest-application-pattern.md, before:

---
wordpress_id: 4643
title: 'P&#038;P &#8211; Web Service with REST Application Pattern'
date: 2009-01-22T07:09:00+00:00
author: Colin Jack
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/colinjack/archive/2009/01/22/p-amp-p-web-service-with-rest-application-pattern.aspx
categories:
  - 'p&amp;p'
  - REST
---
It was interesting that all the fuss over Oxite had a positive impact. Unfortunately Microsoft are also now giving us their views on REST (WCF REST starter kit, argh) and more recently REST with a domain model in [Two-Tier Service Application Scenario (REST)](http://www.codeplex.com/AppArch/Wiki/View.aspx?title=App%20Pattern%20-%20Two-Tier%20Service%20Application%20Scenario%20%28REST%29&referringTitle=Application%20Patterns) which J.D. Meier calls the [Web Service with REST Application Pattern](http://blogs.msdn.com/jmeier/archive/2009/01/21/application-patterns.aspx).

If you understand REST/DDD, or like Fowlers original meanings for his patterns, or believe that &#8220;Business Process Objects&#8221; with methods like &#8220;Promote (object[] data)&#8221; could be improved on then you might want to look away now. Come on though I&#8217;ve piqued your interest, have a look, it makes you feel dirty but yet at the same time makes you glad you now realize that perhaps there are other ways to build applications.

Might be interesting to see how this relates to the old design documents MS used to pass out, pretty sure its not that different except resource is now used in some places instead of service. Service + procedural code + database, rock on.

Anyway I&#8217;m going to go back to writing my own comments on it to put on the page, its going to take me a while&#8230;

**UPDATE**: The contnet now indicates that it is&nbsp;up for community feedback (see comments) so its now&nbsp;up to us to provide useful and constructive feedback&#8230;

Commit message:

feat: Add redirects from old sites.

_colinjack/2009-01-22-p-amp-p-web-service-with-rest-application-pattern.md, after:

---
wordpress_id: 4643
title: 'P&#038;P &#8211; Web Service with REST Application Pattern'
date: 2009-01-22T07:09:00+00:00
author: Colin Jack
layout: post
wordpress_guid: /blogs/colinjack/archive/2009/01/22/p-amp-p-web-service-with-rest-application-pattern.aspx
categories:
  - 'p&amp;p'
  - REST
redirect_from: "/blogs/colinjack/archive/2009/01/22/p-amp-p-web-service-with-rest-application-pattern.aspx/"
---
It was interesting that all the fuss over Oxite had a positive impact. Unfortunately Microsoft are also now giving us their views on REST (WCF REST starter kit, argh) and more recently REST with a domain model in [Two-Tier Service Application Scenario (REST)](http://www.codeplex.com/AppArch/Wiki/View.aspx?title=App%20Pattern%20-%20Two-Tier%20Service%20Application%20Scenario%20%28REST%29&referringTitle=Application%20Patterns) which J.D. Meier calls the [Web Service with REST Application Pattern](http://blogs.msdn.com/jmeier/archive/2009/01/21/application-patterns.aspx).

If you understand REST/DDD, or like Fowlers original meanings for his patterns, or believe that &#8220;Business Process Objects&#8221; with methods like &#8220;Promote (object[] data)&#8221; could be improved on then you might want to look away now. Come on though I&#8217;ve piqued your interest, have a look, it makes you feel dirty but yet at the same time makes you glad you now realize that perhaps there are other ways to build applications.

Might be interesting to see how this relates to the old design documents MS used to pass out, pretty sure its not that different except resource is now used in some places instead of service. Service + procedural code + database, rock on.

Anyway I&#8217;m going to go back to writing my own comments on it to put on the page, its going to take me a while&#8230;

**UPDATE**: The contnet now indicates that it is&nbsp;up for community feedback (see comments) so its now&nbsp;up to us to provide useful and constructive feedback&#8230;
